<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Terminals</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="extensions.xhtml" title="Extensions"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="users.xhtml" title="Users"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider halliday documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">vPBX Clients</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="terminals">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Terminals</h1>
<p>The section <strong>Client configuration</strong> &gt; <strong>Terminals</strong> allows creating new
SIP credentials that can be used by multiple SIP devices to place and receive
calls from IvozProvider.</p>
<p>The best way to understand this section is creating a new item and see the
fields that must be filled.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Username that will use the terminal during the SIP authentication phase
with IvozProvider.</dd>
<dt>Password</dt>
<dd>Password that will use the terminal to answer the SIP authentication
challenge. You can use the automatic password generator to fulfill the
secure password requirements.</dd>
<dt>Allowed/Disallowed codecs</dt>
<dd>Determines what audio and video codecs will be used with the terminal.</dd>
<dt>CallerID update method</dt>
<dd>Choose the SIP method the terminal prefers to received the session
update information: INVITE or UPDATE. The help hint can be used as
guide to configure different terminal manufacturers. Use <em>INVITE</em> in
case of doubt.</dd>
<dt>Terminal model</dt>
<dd>Determines the provisioning type that will receive this terminal.
The section <a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/terminal_manufacturers.xhtml#provisioning"><span class="std std-ref">terminal provisioning</span></a> will explain
in depth the different models for automatic provision. If your device
does not require provisioning, just select <em>Generic</em>.</dd>
<dt>MAC</dt>
<dd>Optional field that is only required if you plan to use IvozProvider
<a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/terminal_manufacturers.xhtml#provisioning"><span class="std std-ref">terminal provisioning</span></a>. This is the <a class="reference external" href="https://wikipedia.org/wiki/MAC_Address">physical
address</a><span class="link-target"> [https://wikipedia.org/wiki/MAC_Address]</span> of the network
adapter of the SIP device.</dd>
<dt>Enable T.38 passthrough</dt>
<dd>If set to &#8216;yes&#8217;, this SIP endpoint must be a <strong>T.38 capable fax sender/receiver</strong>. IvozProvider
will act as a T.38 gateway, bridging fax-calls of a T.38 capable carrier and a T.38 capable device.</dd>
<dt>RTP Encryption</dt>
<dd>If set to &#8216;yes&#8217;, call won&#8217;t be established unless it&#8217;s possible to encryption its audio. If set to &#8216;no&#8217;,
audio won&#8217;t be encrypted.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">For <strong>most of devices</strong> that doesn&#8217;t require provisioning just
filling <strong>username</strong> and <strong>password</strong> will be enough.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p class="last">Once the terminal has been created, most devices will only
require the name, password and <a class="reference internal" href="../../../getting_started/internal_calls/brand_portal.xhtml#domain-per-client"><span class="std std-ref">Client SIP domain</span></a>
in order to place calls.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>