<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Voicemails</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="addressbook.xhtml" title="Address Book"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="services.xhtml" title="Services"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider halliday documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">vPBX Clients</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="voicemails">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Voicemails</h1>
<p>Voicemails can be used as leaf routable endpoint in most vPBX logics.</p>
<p>All users start with a pre-configured voicemail with their email address that can be disabled in voicemails section.</p>
<p>It&#8217;s also possible to create a Voicemail that is not linked to any user, so it can be used in more global routing
logics.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">For these generic voicemails, an extension routed to the voicemail is required to access the check voicemail
service (using the service code followed by the extension number).</p>
</div>
<p>Voicemail most notable fields are:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Enabled</dt>
<dd>Enables or disables voicemail. This will hide this voicemail from select listboxes in routes.</dd>
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>The name displayed in the selection listboxes. For user voicemails, this value is calculated from Firstname and
Lastname of the user.</dd>
<dt>Locution</dt>
<dd>If set, this locution is played as voicemail welcome message when a voicemail
for this voicemail is going to be recorded. This only applies for call forwards
to voicemail.</dd>
<dt>Email address</dt>
<dd>Send an email to the configured user address when a new voicemail is received. For user voicemails this value
is configured in User edit screen.</dd>
<dt>Attach sounds:</dt>
<dd>Attach the audio message to the sent email.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">If voicemail locution is not assigned, default locution will be used as long as
the owner has not recorded a custom message through the voicemail menu (calling to
voicemail service code).</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>