<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Numeric transformations</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="notification_templates.xhtml" title="Notification Templates"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="special_numbers.xhtml" title="Special Numbers"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Settings</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="numeric-transformations">
<span id="transformations"></span><h1>Numeric transformations</h1>
<p><strong>IvozProvider</strong> is designed to provide service <strong>anywhere in the planet</strong>, not
only the original country where the platform is installed.</p>
<p>A very important concept to achieve this goal is the numeric transformation,
that <strong>adapts the different number format systems of the countries of the world</strong>
defined in <a class="reference external" href="https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-E.164/es">E.164</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.itu.int/rec/T-REC-E.164/es]</span> <strong>to a neutral format</strong>.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">Numeric transformation <em>sets</em> must be assigned to <a class="reference internal" href="../providers/carriers.xhtml#carriers"><span class="std std-ref">Carriers</span></a>, <a class="reference internal" href="../providers/ddi_providers.xhtml#ddi-providers"><span class="std std-ref">DDI Providers</span></a>, <strong>Clients</strong> and <strong>User
endpoints</strong> (Users, Friends, retail accounts, residential devices, etc.) to define the way every entity talks
with IvozProvider.</p>
</div>
<p>There are two different transformation scenarios:</p>
<div class="section" id="incoming-transformations">
<h2>Incoming transformations</h2>
<p>When a new call is received in IvozProvider matching a provider that has been
configured for <em>peering</em>, we must adapt the numbers that make reference to:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Origin of the call</li>
<li>Destination of the call</li>
</ul>
<p>Depending on the country of the provider, the international numbers will have
a format or another. In this case, the spanish provider will use, for example:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>00 + 33 + number belonging to France</li>
<li>It&#8217;s possible that the international numbers came without the 00 code.</li>
<li>It&#8217;s possible that, if the call comes from the same country that the provider,
the number comes without the calling code (911234567 instead of 00 + 34 +
911234567 for Spain).</li>
</ul>
<p>For an Ukranian provider, that doesn&#8217;t use the 00 as international code:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>It will use 810 + 33 + number belonging to France.</li>
<li>It&#8217;s possible that even part of the international code (00 in most of the
countries of the world) the provider use specific codes as prefix.</li>
</ul>
<p>The goal of the incoming transformation is that, no matter what numeric system
the provider uses, the number will end in a general and common format.</p>
<div class="admonition important" id="e164">
<p class="first admonition-title">Importante</p>
<p class="last">This common format is usually called E.164 and shows the numbers
without international code, but with country calling code: i.e. +34911234567</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="outgoing-transformations">
<h2>Outgoing transformations</h2>
<p>In the same way the origin and destination must adapt incoming numbers, it
will be required to adapt outgoing dialed numbers to properly work with each
of the providers that will route our call.</p>
<p>For example, for a number with spanish number system:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><em>Spanish provider</em>: Destination will come in E164 (+34911234567) and for this
provider, we can remove the calling code (will understand it belongs to
its country), so the number sent to them will be 911234567.</li>
<li><em>French provider</em>: The destination will come in E164 (+34911234567) and we must
add the international code for France, so the number sent to them will be
0034911234567.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">To sum up, we aim to send the origin and destination in the format the
provider is expecting.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Numeric transformation uses <a class="reference external" href="https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expresi%C3%B3n_regular">simple regular expressions</a><span class="link-target"> [https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Expresi%C3%B3n_regular]</span> to describe the
changes done to the numbers. You can find multiple tutorials on net with the
basic regular expression format.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="add-a-new-transformation-set">
<h3>Add a new transformation set</h3>
<p>IvozProvider comes with an automatic transformation rules generator that fits
with most of the countries.</p>
<p>In order to create a new set of transformations use <strong>Add Numeric transformations</strong>:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Use to reference this numeric transformation set</dd>
<dt id="term-description">Description</dt>
<dd>Additional information for each set</dd>
<dt id="term-automatic-creation-of-rules">Automatic creation of rules</dt>
<dd>If set, <em>Geographic Configuration</em> fields will be used to automatically configure the rules of the set.</dd>
<dt id="term-geographic-configuration">Geographic Configuration</dt>
<dd>International Code of the country, country code, trunk prefix if any, area code if any and national subscriber
number length</dd>
</dl>
<div class="section" id="example-for-spain">
<h4>Example for Spain</h4>
<p>Fulfilling Geographic Configuration with:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>International Code: 00</li>
<li>Country Code: +34</li>
<li>Trunk Prefix: &lt;empty&gt;</li>
<li>Area Code: &lt;empty&gt;</li>
<li>National number length: 9</li>
</ul>
<p>Auto-created rules will transform the numbers for spanish providers that follow these rules:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>A spanish number: Neither international nor calling code (34).</li>
<li>Not a spanish number: International code (00) and calling code (34).</li>
</ul>
<p>Let&#8217;s check this <em>set</em> to understand what transformation rule does:</p>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Atención</p>
<p class="last">The automatic rule generation will create 8 common rules based on
the given parameters. This rules can be edited later to match the provider
requirements.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="spanish-incoming-transformation">
<h2>Spanish incoming transformation</h2>
<p>Displayed in blue in the previous image:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Left called/destination</li>
<li>Right callee/origin</li>
</ul>
<p>The same rules will be applied for the origin and destination:</p>
<ul>
<li><p class="first">The <strong>metric</strong> field will be used to order the rules (smaller first).</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>If a rule doesn&#8217;t <em>match</em>, the next rule is evaluated.</li>
<li>If a rule <em>matches</em>, no more rules are evaluated.</li>
<li>If no rule <em>matches</em>, no change is applied.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p class="first">The <strong>Search</strong> field is evaluated against the number (depending of the
transformation type it will be destination or origin).</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">The <strong>Replace</strong> field will use the capture groups that matched the Search
field (displayed between brackets, 1 for the first one, 2 for the second
one, and so on) to determine how the number will end.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="spanish-outgoing-transformation">
<h2>Spanish outgoing transformation</h2>
<p>Following the same logic, this 2 rules make the change of the outgoing external
destination numbers.</p>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Atención</p>
<p class="last"><strong>To sum up</strong>: numeric transformation can adapt origin and
destination numbers to E.164 for the platform, and to providers expected
formats, based on regular expressions and metric that can be grouped in <em>sets</em>
to be shared between multiple <strong>Carriers</strong>.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="conclusion">
<h3>Conclusion</h3>
<p>This is a key section that allows creating sets that will allow IvozProvider make needed numeric translations to &#8216;talk&#8217;
with all the external entities:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Providers (carriers and DDI Providers)</li>
<li>Client endpoints (Users, Friends, Retail accounts, Residential accounts, Wholesale clients)</li>
</ul>
<p>Those sets will:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Convert custom external format to E.164 for internal usage.</li>
<li>Convert E.164 to custom external format for external usage.</li>
</ul>
<p>Converted SIP headers:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Destination headers (R-URI/To/Refer-To)</li>
<li>Source headers (From/RPID/PAI/Diversion)</li>
</ul>
<p>For all these transformations <a class="reference external" href="http://php.net/manual/en/reference.pcre.pattern.syntax.php">Regular Expressions</a><span class="link-target"> [http://php.net/manual/en/reference.pcre.pattern.syntax.php]</span> knowledge
is needed, unless automatic created rules work out of the box.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>