<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Generic Services</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="generic_match_lists.xhtml" title="Generic Match Lists"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="generic_music_on_hold.xhtml" title="Generic Music on Hold"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - halliday</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Settings</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="generic-services">
<span id="brand-services"></span><h1>Generic Services</h1>
<p>This section allows the brand operator to change the default services and default service codes for new clients.</p>
<p>By default this list has all the services and codes from the god level <strong>Service</strong> section.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">Changing/deleting the default code in this section will only affect new created clients. Existing clients codes won&#8217;t
be modified.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="call-forward-services">
<span id="id1"></span><h2>Call forward services</h2>
<p>Call forward services (unconditional, no answer, busy and unreachable) are <strong>only available for residential clients</strong>
and allow adding <strong>call forward to national phone numbers and to voicemail</strong>.</p>
<p>All residential <strong>clients within a brand use the same codes</strong> to access to this feature, those defined in this section.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">Call forward to numbers outside company&#8217;s country is not supported using services codes.
Use web portal instead.</p>
</div>
<p class="rubric">Enabling a call forward setting</p>
<p>To enable a call forward of a given type to forward calls to a national number, residential device must call to defined
service code followed by destination number. This will create and enable (or modify if already exists one) a call
forward of given type to that national number.</p>
<p>To enable a call forward of a given type to forward calls to voicemail, residential device must call to defined
service code followed by &#8216;*&#8217;. This will create and enable (or modify if already exists one) a call
forward of given type to voicemail.</p>
<p class="rubric">Disabling a call forward setting</p>
<p>Calling to the code without any additional number will delete all active call forward settings of that type.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>