<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Notification Templates</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="generic_music_on_hold.xhtml" title="Generic Music on Hold"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="numeric_transformations.xhtml" title="Numeric transformations"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - halliday</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Settings</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="id1">
<span id="notification-templates"></span><span id="id2"></span><h1>Notification Templates</h1>
<p>Brand administrators can configure the notifications sent by IvozProvider:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Email sent when a new voicemail is received</li>
<li>Email sent when a new fax is received</li>
<li>Email sent when a balance is below configured threshold</li>
<li>Email sent when an automatic invoice is generated</li>
<li>Email sent when scheduled CDR CSVs are generated</li>
<li>Email sent when max daily usage is reached</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">When no custom notification is configured, default ones will be used</p>
</div>
<p>Notifications are created in two steps: Create a notification type and add contents to the notification for each
required language.</p>
<div class="section" id="creating-a-new-notification">
<h2>Creating a new notification</h2>
<p>Brand administrators can create new notification templates in <strong>Brand configuration</strong> &gt; <strong>Notification templates</strong>:</p>
<p>Fields are nearly self-explanatory:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Used to identify this notification template</dd>
<dt>Type</dt>
<dd>Determine the notification type. Each notification type has its own substitution variables available to replace
the contents of the subject and body.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="adding-notification-contents">
<h2>Adding Notification contents</h2>
<p>Once the notification has been created, you can add different language contents. IvozProvider will automatically use
the proper language based on the destination:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>For Voicemails, the user language will be used</li>
<li>For Faxes, the client language will be used.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<p>Configurable fields of each content:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Language</dt>
<dd>Language of the contents.</dd>
<dt>From Name</dt>
<dd>The from name used while sending emails (p.e. IvozProvider Voicemail Notifications)</dd>
<dt>From Address</dt>
<dd>The from address used while sending emails (p.e. <a class="reference external" href="mailto:no-reply&#37;&#52;&#48;ivozprovider&#46;com">no-reply<span>&#64;</span>ivozprovider<span>&#46;</span>com</a>)</dd>
<dt>Substitution variables</dt>
<dd>Available variables that can be used in subject and body that will be replaced before sending the email. Each
notification type has its own variables.</dd>
<dt>Subject</dt>
<dd>Subject of the email to be sent. You can include Substitution variables here.</dd>
<dt>Body type</dt>
<dd>Body of the mail can be both plaintext or html.</dd>
<dt>Body</dt>
<dd>Body of the email to be sent. You can include Substitution variables here.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">There is no need to create all content languages. If custom notification has some languages not defined the
default contents will be used for that notification type.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="assigning-templates-to-clients">
<h2>Assigning templates to clients</h2>
<p>Once the notification has been configured for the desired languages, Brand administrator can assign it to the
client that will use it. This can be done in the Notification configuration section of each client.
If client has no notification configured, brand notifications will be used for that client instead. If brand has no
notification configured, default notifications will be used.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>