<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Remote friends</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="internal_friends.xhtml" title="Internal friends"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Friends"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >vPBX Clients</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Routing endpoints</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-4"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Friends</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="remote-friends">
<h1>Remote friends</h1>
<p>Remote friends connect a vPBX client with an external SIP entity.</p>
<div class="section" id="types-of-remote-friends">
<h2>Types of remote friends</h2>
<p>There are 2 main types of SIP PBX that can be integrate with IvozProvider:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>Direct connection PBX</strong> (Connectivity mode: direct): IvozProvider must be able to talk SIP directly with
this kind of friends by just redirecting the traffic to the proper port of
the public IP address of the PBX.</li>
<li><strong>PBX behind NAT</strong> (Connectivity mode: register): Not directly accessible. This kind of PBX must register at
IvozProvider (just like all the <a class="reference internal" href="../../terminals.xhtml#terminals"><span class="std std-ref">Terminals</span></a> do).</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="what-do-remote-friends-allow">
<h2>What do remote friends allow?</h2>
<p>This section allows not just communication between users at boths ends of the
SIP <em>trunk</em>, but also:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Users &#8220;from the other side&#8221; can call to the public network just like native
Ivozprovider <a class="reference internal" href="../../users.xhtml#users"><span class="std std-ref">Users</span></a>.</li>
<li>Public network calls can be routed to the other SIP <em>trunk</em> end.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="what-kind-of-calls-can-be-routed-through-a-remote-friend">
<h2>What kind of calls can be routed through a <em>remote friend</em>?</h2>
<p>IvozProvider must know what calls must be routed to the different defined <em>remote friends</em>.
For that, <strong>client administrator</strong> will configure regular expressions that
describe the numbers that <em>can be reached</em> through the <strong>friend</strong>.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">Internal <a class="reference internal" href="../../extensions.xhtml#extensions"><span class="std std-ref">extensions</span></a> have priority over any expression
defined in the <em>friends</em>.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition important">
<p class="first admonition-title">Important</p>
<p class="last">Avoid PCRE regular expressions in friend configuration: use [0-9] instead of \d.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="configuration-of-remote-friends">
<h2>Configuration of remote friends</h2>
<p>The <strong>Friend</strong> configuration is a merge between a <strong>User</strong> and a <strong>Terminal</strong></p>
<p>These are the configurable settings of <em>friends</em>:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Name of the <strong>friend</strong>, like in <strong>Terminals</strong>. This will also be used
in SIP messages (sent <strong>From User</strong>).</dd>
<dt id="term-description">Description</dt>
<dd>Optional. Extra information for this <strong>friend</strong>.</dd>
<dt id="term-priority">Priority</dt>
<dd>Used to solve conflicts while routing calls through <strong>friends</strong>.
If a call destination <strong>matches</strong> more than one friend regular expression
the call will be routed through the friend with <strong>less priority value</strong>.</dd>
<dt id="term-password">Password</dt>
<dd>When the <em>friend</em> send requests, IvozProvider will authenticate it using
this password. <strong>Using password IS A MUST in &#8220;Register&#8221; mode</strong>. In &#8220;Direct&#8221; mode,
leaving it blank disables SIP authentication and enables IP source check.</dd>
<dt id="term-connectivity-mode">Connectivity mode</dt>
<dd>Choose between &#8220;Direct&#8221; and &#8220;Register&#8221; for a remote friend.</dd>
<dt id="term-call-acl">Call ACL</dt>
<dd>Similar to <a class="reference internal" href="../../users.xhtml#users"><span class="std std-ref">internal users</span></a>, friends can place internal
client calls without restriction (including Extension or other Friends).
When calling to external numbers, this ACL will be checked if set.</dd>
<dt id="term-fallback-outgoing-ddi">Fallback Outgoing DDI</dt>
<dd>External calls from this <em>friend</em> will be presented with this DDI, <strong>unless
the source presented by friend is a DDI that exists in DDIs section</strong>.</dd>
<dt id="term-country-and-area-code">Country and Area code</dt>
<dd>Used for number transformation from and to this friend.</dd>
<dt id="term-allowed-codecs">Allowed codecs</dt>
<dd>Like a terminal, <em>friends</em> will talk the selected codec.</dd>
<dt id="term-from-user">From user</dt>
<dd>Request from IvozProvider to this friend will include this user in
the From header.</dd>
<dt id="term-from-domain">From domain</dt>
<dd>Request from IvozProvider to this friend will include this domain in
the From header.</dd>
<dt id="term-ddi-in">DDI In</dt>
<dd>If set to &#8216;Yes&#8217;, set destination (R-URI and To) to called DDI/number when calling to this endpoint. If set &#8216;No&#8217;, username
used in Contact header of registration will be used, as specified in SIP RFC (friend name will be used for
endpoints with direct connectivity). Defaults to &#8216;Yes&#8217;.</dd>
<dt id="term-enable-t-38-passthrough">Enable T.38 passthrough</dt>
<dd>If set to &#8216;yes&#8217;, this SIP endpoint must be a <strong>T.38 capable fax sender/receiver</strong>. IvozProvider
will act as a T.38 gateway, bridging fax-calls of a T.38 capable carrier and a T.38 capable device.</dd>
<dt id="term-always-apply-transformations">Always apply transformations</dt>
<dd>Both numbers listed in Extensions section and numbers matching any friend regexp will be considered as internal and
won&#8217;t traverse numeric transformation rules.  Enable this setting to force Numeric Transformation rules even on these numbers.</dd>
<dt id="term-rtp-encryption">RTP Encryption</dt>
<dd>If set to &#8216;yes&#8217;, call won&#8217;t be established unless it&#8217;s possible to encryption its audio. If set to &#8216;no&#8217;,
audio won&#8217;t be encrypted.</dd>
<dt id="term-multi-contact">Multi Contact</dt>
<dd>Same SIP credentials can be configured in multiple SIP devices. In that case, all devices ring
simultaneously when receiving a call. Setting this toggle to &#8216;No&#8217; limits this behaviour so that
only latest registered SIP device rings.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">Calls to <em>friends</em> are considered internal. That means that ACLs won&#8217;t
be checked when calling a friend, no matter if the origin of the call
is a user or another friend.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Friend can be contacted due to calls to several extensions/DDIs. <em>DDI In</em> setting allows remote SIP endpoint to
know which number caused each call, setting that number as destination (R-URI and To headers). This way, friend
can handle calls differently.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="asterisk-as-a-remote-friend">
<h2>Asterisk as a remote friend</h2>
<p>At the other end of a friend can be any kind of SIP entity. This section takes
as example an Asterisk PBX system using SIP channel driver that wants to connect
to IvozProvider.</p>
<p class="rubric">register</p>
<p>If the system can not be directly access, Asterisk will have to register in the
platform (like a terminal will do).</p>
<p>Configuration will be something like this:</p>
<div class="highlight-none"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>register =&gt; friendName:friendPassword@ivozprovider-client.sip-domain.com
</pre></div>
</div>
<p class="rubric">peer</p>
<div class="highlight-none"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>[friendName]
type=peer
host=ivozprovider-client.sip-domain.com
context=XXXXXX
disallow=all
allow=alaw
defaultuser=friendName
secret=friendPassword
fromuser=friendName
fromdomain=ivozprovider-brand.sip-domain.com
insecure=port,invite
sendrpid=pai
directmedia=no
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last"><em>Friends</em>, like terminals, MUST NOT challenge IvozProvider. That&#8217;s
why the <em>insecure</em> setting is used here.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">As From username is used to identify the friend, P-Asserted-Identity (or P-Preferred-Identity or Remote-Party-Id) must be used to specify caller number.
Prevalence among these source headers is: PAI &gt; PPI &gt; RPID.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="summary-of-remote-friends">
<h2>Summary of remote friends</h2>
<p>The key point is understanding that a <em>remote friend</em> has a direct relation with the
extension-user-terminal trio:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Can place calls to all internal extensions and other friends.</li>
<li>Can place external calls that its ACL allows</li>
<li>Display their configured outgoing DDI when calling to external entities</li>
<li>Never challenge IvozProvider requests (don&#8217;t request authentication on received requests)</li>
<li>Answers IvozProvider authentication challenges (All request from them to
IvozProvider must be authenticated for security reasons)</li>
<li>Only connects with <em>Users SIP Proxy</em>, like terminals. In fact, SIP traffic from
friends are identical to any other user terminal traffic in format.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>