<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Invoice schedulers</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="invoice_number_sequences.xhtml" title="Invoice number sequences"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="invoices.xhtml" title="Invoices"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Invoicing</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="invoice-schedulers">
<h1>Invoice schedulers</h1>
<p>This section allows programming the automatic periodical creation of invoices.</p>
<p>When adding a new definition, these fields are shown:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Name of the scheduled invoice</dd>
<dt id="term-client">Client</dt>
<dd>Which client calls should be included</dd>
<dt id="term-email">Email</dt>
<dd>Send generated invoices via email. Empty if no automatic mail is wanted.</dd>
<dt id="term-frequency-unit">Frequency/Unit</dt>
<dd>Defines the frequency (once a month, every 7 days, etc.) of the programmed task</dd>
<dt id="term-invoice-number-sequence">Invoice number sequence</dt>
<dd>Scheduled invoices will use the next invoice number available in a given predefined sequence</dd>
<dt id="term-call-discount">Call discount</dt>
<dd>Percentage to discount calls, prior to tax rate calculation. No effect on fixed concepts.</dd>
<dt id="term-tax-rate">Tax rate</dt>
<dd>Taxes to add to the final cost (e.g. VAT)</dd>
</dl>
<p>Invoices generated due to a schedule can be seen in two ways:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>In each row of <em>Invoice schedulers</em> section, <strong>List of Invoices</strong> option.</li>
<li>In <em>Invoices</em> section, indistinguishable to manually generated invoices.</li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="fixed-costs">
<h2>Fixed costs</h2>
<p>When defining a scheduled invoice, you can add fixed costs in a static or dynamic way:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Type <strong>&#8216;static&#8217;</strong> is used for fixed quantities.</li>
<li>Type <strong>&#8216;Max calls&#8217;</strong> sets the quantity in the moment of the creation of the invoice to
&#8220;Max calls&#8221; value of the client in that specific moment.</li>
<li>Type <strong>&#8216;DDIs&#8217;</strong> sets the quantity in the moment of the creation of the invoice to
the number of DDIS matching criteria (all, national, international or belonging to specific country)
in the client in that specific moment.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Non-static values are retrieved from client configuration in the date specified in &#8220;Next execution&#8221;.
Regenerating the invoice later will not modify assigned value, but you can adapt it manually to
the desired value editing the fixed cost in Invoice section and regenerating the invoice.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="frequency-definition">
<h2>Frequency definition</h2>
<p>It is interesting to understand how <em>Frequency</em> and <em>Unit</em> fields define the periodical task:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Invoices are programmed at 08:00:00 by default on mondays, 1st of month or 1st of January (depending on Unit value).</li>
<li>Once created a new schedule, <strong>Next execution</strong> shows when will happen next invoice generation.</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Next execution</strong> value can be mangled, but generated invoice always will:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Discard current day (2018/11/01 08:00:00 will set 2018/10/31 23:59:59 as <em>Out date</em>).</li>
<li><em>In date</em> will be <em>out date</em> minus X week(s), X month(s) or X year(s) (X equals to <em>Frequency</em> value) + 1 second.</li>
</ul>
<p class="rubric">Example 1: Unit: week - Frequency 2</p>
<p>Next execution will be set to next monday at 08:00 and invoices will include calls of last 2 weeks.</p>
<p class="rubric">Example 1: Unit: month - Frequency 3</p>
<p>Next execution will be set to next 1st of month at 08:00 and invoices will include calls of last 3 months.</p>
<p class="rubric">Example 1: Unit: month - Frequency 1 - Next execution mangling</p>
<p>Next execution will be set to next 1st of month at 08:00 but we mangle it to 3rd of month at 10:00:00.</p>
<p>Invoice will include calls from 3nd of previous month at 00:00:00 to 2nd to current month at 23:59:59.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last"><em>Last execution</em> shows the date of last execution and its result (success/error).</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">Both <em>next execution</em> and <em>last execution</em> are shown using brand timezone.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>