<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Extensions</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="ddis.xhtml" title="DDIs"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="terminals.xhtml" title="Terminals"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - halliday</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Clientes vPBX</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="extensions">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Extensions</h1>
<p><strong>An extensions is</strong>, by definition, <strong>an internal number with an assigned
logic</strong>. Internal users&#8217; calls to numbers listed in this section do not traverse
call ACL logics: <strong>every user/friend is allowed to call to any number listed here</strong>.</p>
<p class="rubric">Create a new extension</p>
<dl class="docutils">
<dt>Number</dt>
<dd>The number that must be dialed by the internal user that will trigger
the configured logic. It must have a minimum length of 2 and must be
a number.</dd>
<dt>Route</dt>
<dd>This select will allow us to choose the logic that will use this
extension when is dialed from an internal user. Depending on the selected
route, and additional select or input will be shown to select the
hunt group, conference room, user, etc.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">If an extension has a number that conflicts with an external
number, this external number will be masked and, in practice, will be
unavailable for the whole client.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="route-options">
<h2>Route options</h2>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Unassigned</dt>
<dd>Calls to this extension will be hung up.</dd>
<dt>User</dt>
<dd>Selected <a class="reference internal" href="users.xhtml#users"><span class="std std-ref">user</span></a> will be called.</dd>
<dt>IVR</dt>
<dd>Selected <a class="reference internal" href="routing_endpoints/ivrs.xhtml#ivrs"><span class="std std-ref">IVR</span></a> logic will be called.</dd>
<dt>Huntgroup</dt>
<dd>Selected <a class="reference internal" href="routing_endpoints/hunt_groups.xhtml#huntgroups"><span class="std std-ref">huntgroup</span></a> will be called.</dd>
<dt>Friend</dt>
<dd>Calls to this extension will evaluate <a class="reference internal" href="routing_endpoints/friends/index.xhtml#friends"><span class="std std-ref">friends</span></a> logic.</dd>
<dt>Queue</dt>
<dd>Call will be delivered to selected <a class="reference internal" href="routing_endpoints/queues.xhtml#queues"><span class="std std-ref">queue</span></a>.</dd>
<dt>Conditional route</dt>
<dd>Call will be delivered to selected <a class="reference internal" href="routing_endpoints/conditional_routes.xhtml#id1"><span class="std std-ref">conditional route</span></a>.</dd>
<dt>Number</dt>
<dd>Calling to this extension will generate an external outbound call
to introduced number.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">Any internal user can generate an external outbound call via an <strong>Extension
routed to Number</strong> even if its <em>Call permissions</em> does not allow to
call to that destination directly.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="import-aliases">
<h2>Import aliases</h2>
<p><em>Extensions to numbers</em> are useful to call to most dialed numbers easily. As each
client usually has a list with frequent numbers, <strong>Import aliases</strong> button allows
importing them through a CSV file.</p>
<p class="rubric">Example import file</p>
<div class="highlight-none"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>Extension,CountryPrefix,Number,CountryCode
200,+34,944048184,ES
201,+34,944048185,ES
202,+34,944048186
203,+1,944048187
204,+1,944048188,US
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Numbers will be imported synchronously following these rules:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>If given extension already exists and points to a number: number is updated.</li>
<li>If given extension already exists and does not point to a number: error.</li>
<li>If given country prefix does not exist: error.</li>
<li>If given country code does not exist: error.</li>
<li>If given country prefix and country code combination does not exist: error.</li>
<li>CountryCode is optional: if given country prefix is used in multiple countries
and country code is not given, first country is selected.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>