<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>&lt;no title&gt;</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Oasis documentation</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p>The global administator role (operator in the image) is usually done by
the installation responsible.</p>
<p>All options and platform features are visible to this role and usually is
in charge of its maintenance.</p>
<p>Their most important task is to <strong>create Brands</strong> and configure them so
they have the enough autonomy to properly use the platform:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Configure their web access.</li>
<li>Configure their brand portal look and feel: themes, colors, etc.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<p>Appart from their main task, their global visibility and total access
makes them responsible of:</p>
<ul>
<li><p class="first">Monitor the platform so it keeps always UP &amp; RUNNING</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">Analyze platform logs to track possible errors.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">Polish the security mechanisms to avoid external attacks.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">Obtain global statistics of calls audio quality.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">Increase the available resources of the platform as long as is needed:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Increasing resources available in a standalone installation</li>
<li>Migrating, whenever required, to a distributed installation with multiple
AS, media relays, etc.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
</ul>
<p>To sum up, <strong>this role is the only one that has no limits within the
platform</strong>, thats why <em>God</em> is a term used in multiple places along this
documentation.</p>
<div class="admonition important">
<p class="first admonition-title">Important</p>
<p class="last"><em>This role is responsible of maintain the platform*</em>, configuring
it for the correct behaviour. This role <strong>doesn&#8217;t have any kind
of limit</strong> and <strong>grants access</strong> to the <strong>brand operators</strong>.</p>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2017, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>