<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Brands</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="main_operators.xhtml" title="Main operators"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Platform Configuration"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - halliday</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Platform Configuration</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="brands">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Brands</h1>
<p><em>God operator</em> is responsible for creating and managing platform brands through this section.</p>
<p>This are the fields shown when a new brand is created:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Sets the name for this brand.</dd>
<dt>TIN</dt>
<dd>Number used in this brand&#8217;s invoices.</dd>
<dt>Logo</dt>
<dd>Used as default logo in invoices and in portals (if they don&#8217;t specify
another logo).</dd>
<dt>Invoice data</dt>
<dd>Data included in invoices created by this brand.</dd>
<dt>SIP domain</dt>
<dd>Introduced in 1.4. Domain pointing to Users SIP proxy used by all the
Retail Accounts and Residential Devices of this brand.</dd>
<dt>Recordings</dt>
<dd>Configures a limit for the size of recordings of this brand. A
notification is sent to configured address when 80% is reached and
older recordings are rotated when configured size is reached.</dd>
<dt>Features</dt>
<dd>Introduced in 1.3, lets god operator choose the features of the created
brand. An equivalent configuration is available in Clients, to choose
between the ones that god operator gave to your Brand. Related sections
are hidden consequently.</dd>
<dt>Max calls</dt>
<dd>Limits both user generated and <strong>external</strong> received calls to this value
(0 for unlimited).</dd>
<dt>Locales</dt>
<dd>Define default Timezone, Language and Currency for clients of this brand.</dd>
<dt>Notifications</dt>
<dd>Configure the email <a class="reference internal" href="../brand/settings/notification_templates.xhtml#id1"><span class="std std-ref">Notification Templates</span></a> to use for this brand.
Clients configured to use generic notifications will use configured
brand notifications. If brand has no notification configured
<a class="reference internal" href="default_notification_templates.xhtml#id1"><span class="std std-ref">Default Notification Templates</span></a> will be used.</dd>
<dt>ProxyTrunks</dt>
<dd>Select which ProxyTrunks addresses can be used by this brand. Read <a class="reference internal" href="infrastructure/proxy_trunks.xhtml#proxy-trunks"><span class="std std-ref">Proxy Trunks</span></a>
for further details. It is not possible to unassign an address used in any <a class="reference internal" href="../brand/providers/carriers.xhtml#carriers"><span class="std std-ref">carrier</span></a> or
<a class="reference internal" href="../brand/providers/ddi_providers.xhtml#ddi-providers"><span class="std std-ref">DDI provider</span></a>.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">Some features are related to brand and cannot be assigned to clients.
Other ones are also related to clients and lets the brand operator to
assign them to its clients.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">Disabling billing hides all related sections and assumes that an
external element will set a price for calls (external tarification
module is needed, ask for it!).</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">Disabling invoices hides related sections, assuming you will use an
external tool to generate them.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">SIP domain is only visible for Brands with Retail or Residential features
enabled.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="brand-operators">
<span id="id2"></span><h2>Brand operators</h2>
<p><strong>List of brand operators</strong> subsection allows adding/editing/deleting credentials for brand portal access.</p>
<p>Read <a class="reference internal" href="../../api_rest/acls.xhtml#acls"><span class="std std-ref">ACLs</span></a> for further explanation about restricted brand administrators.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="brand-portals">
<span id="id3"></span><h2>Brand Portals</h2>
<p><strong>List of brand portals</strong> subsection allows managing URLs to access to the different web portals available for a given brand.</p>
<p>See <a class="reference internal" href="../brand/settings/client_portals.xhtml#id1"><span class="std std-ref">Client Portals</span></a> for further reference.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">URLs are assigned to brands. This means that through a given URL the brand can be guessed, but not the client.
As a result, username collision domain will be at brand level (there cannot exist to client administrators
with the same username within a brand).</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>