<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Services</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="currencies.xhtml" title="Currencies"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="terminal_manufacturers.xhtml" title="Terminal manufacturers"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - halliday</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Platform Configuration</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="services">
<span id="god-services"></span><h1>Services</h1>
<p>There are <strong>special services</strong> that can be accessed by calling to some codes
<strong>from the terminal</strong>.</p>
<div class="admonition danger">
<p class="first admonition-title">Peligro</p>
<p class="last">Services defined in this section <strong>are not accessible during a
conversation</strong>. They are activated by <strong>calling the codes</strong>, not using
DTMF codes while talking.</p>
</div>
<p>There are the following <strong>special services</strong> available in the section <strong>Global
configuration</strong> &gt; <strong>Services</strong>:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Direct pickup</dt>
<dd>This service allows capturing a ringing call from another terminal by
calling the code followed by the extension from the target user.</dd>
<dt>Group pickup</dt>
<dd>This service allows capturing a ringing call for any terminal whose user
is part of one of the capturer pickup groups.</dd>
<dt>Check voicemail</dt>
<dd>This service allows checking the user&#8217;s voicemail using an interactive
menu from which new voicemails can be listen, deleted, etc. This is an
active alternative to receive voicemails via the email. Since 1.4, this
service allows optional extension after the service code to check
another users voicemails. Users can protect their voicemail using the
internal menu options.</dd>
<dt>Record locution</dt>
<dd>This service allows any user to record their client&#8217;s locutions by
dialing an special code. Voice instructions will be provided in the
user&#8217;s language.</dd>
<dt>Open Lock</dt>
<dd>Calling this service code will set route lock status to &#8216;Opened&#8217; (see <a class="reference internal" href="../client/vpbx/routing_tools/route_locks.xhtml#route-locks"><span class="std std-ref">Route locks</span></a>).</dd>
<dt>Close Lock</dt>
<dd>Calling this service code will set route lock status to &#8216;Closed&#8217; (see <a class="reference internal" href="../client/vpbx/routing_tools/route_locks.xhtml#route-locks"><span class="std std-ref">Route locks</span></a>).</dd>
<dt>Toggle Lock</dt>
<dd>Calling this service code will change the current status of the lock (see <a class="reference internal" href="../client/vpbx/routing_tools/route_locks.xhtml#route-locks"><span class="std std-ref">Route locks</span></a>).</dd>
<dt>Inconditional call forward</dt>
<dd>Calling this service code will change the current status of inconditional call forward (only available for
residential clients, see <a class="reference internal" href="../client/residential/residential_devices.xhtml#residential-devices-cfw"><span class="std std-ref">Residential device call forward settings</span></a>).</dd>
<dt>Busy call forward</dt>
<dd>Calling this service code will change the current status of busy call forward (only available for
residential clients, see <a class="reference internal" href="../client/residential/residential_devices.xhtml#residential-devices-cfw"><span class="std std-ref">Residential device call forward settings</span></a>).</dd>
<dt>No answer call forward</dt>
<dd>Calling this service code will change the current status of no answer call forward (only available for
residential clients, see <a class="reference internal" href="../client/residential/residential_devices.xhtml#residential-devices-cfw"><span class="std std-ref">Residential device call forward settings</span></a>).</dd>
<dt>Unreachable call forward</dt>
<dd>Calling this service code will change the current status of no answer call forward (only available for
residential clients, see <a class="reference internal" href="../client/residential/residential_devices.xhtml#residential-devices-cfw"><span class="std std-ref">Residential device call forward settings</span></a>).it di</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<p>As soon as new services are implemented into IvozProvider, they will be listed
in this section.</p>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Atención</p>
<p class="last">This section lists the available services and the default codes
when a <strong>new brand</strong> is created.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">Changing the default code in this section will only affect new
created brands.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>