<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Configuración Global</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="brand_portal.xhtml" title="Brand Configuration"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Realizar llamadas internas"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Realizar llamadas internas</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="global-configuration">
<h1>Configuración Global</h1>
<div class="admonition important">
<p class="first admonition-title">Importante</p>
<p class="last">Any of the 2 Public IP addresses configured during the
installation will work to access the web portal. Default credentials are
<strong>admin / changeme</strong>.</p>
</div>
<p>In this section will reference global administrator configuration options,
available in the menu (<strong>Main management</strong>) of the web portal (only visible to
God Admins):</p>
<div class="section" id="emulate-the-demo-brand">
<h2>Emular la marca Demo</h2>
<p>Como mencionamos anteriormente, tras la instalación inicial, la plataforma incluye una marca pre-creada llamada DemoBrand, que es la que utilizaremos para el fin que nos ocupa: tener 2 teléfonos registrados y que se puedan llamar entre sí.</p>
<p>Antes de pasar a la siguiente sección, es importante entender el concepto de <strong>Emular una marca</strong>:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>As global operator, you have access to the menu <strong>Global Configuration</strong> only
visible to <em>God</em> administrators.</li>
<li>Apart from that menu, you will also have access to the <strong>Brand Configuration</strong>
and <strong>Client configuration</strong> blocks.</li>
<li>Last two blocks have a red button in the right side.</li>
<li>When pressed, a popup will be displayed that lists all existing brands / clients.</li>
<li>After selecting the DemoBrand brand, the icon will change.</li>
<li>The upper right corner of the portal will also display the brand that is being
emulated.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="what-emulation-means">
<h2>¿Qué implica esta emulación?</h2>
<p>Que <strong>todo lo que se ve en el bloque &#8216;Configuración de marca&#8217; es relativo a esa marca</strong> y es <em>exactamente</em> lo mismo que lo que ve el operador de marca cuando entra con sus credenciales de acceso.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Ok, ok, maybe exactly is not totally accurate. The global operator is
able to see some fields in some screens that other admins can&#8217;t (i.e. On
Client edit screen, fields like &#8216;Media relays&#8217; or &#8216;Application server&#8217; are
only configurable by the global operator.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>