<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>External call filters</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="calendars.xhtml" title="Calendars"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Routing tools"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Clientes vPBX</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Routing tools</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="external-call-filters">
<span id="external-filters"></span><h1>External call filters</h1>
<p>One of the most common task a client&#8217;s administrator will do is to
configure schedules and calendars to apply to existing <a class="reference internal" href="../ddis.xhtml#ddis"><span class="std std-ref">DDIs</span></a>.</p>
<p>Once we have our new created <a class="reference internal" href="schedules.xhtml#schedules"><span class="std std-ref">Schedules</span></a> and <a class="reference internal" href="calendars.xhtml#calendars"><span class="std std-ref">Calendars</span></a>, it&#8217;s time to apply them
in what we call <strong>External call filter</strong>.</p>
<p>The client admin can configure them in the following screen:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Descriptive name that will reference this filter in DDIs configuration.</dd>
<dt id="term-welcome-locution">Welcome locution</dt>
<dd>This locution will be played if the call is not going to be
forwarded by out of schedule or holiday filtering (in other words if
the normal routing of the DDI is going to be applied).</dd>
<dt id="term-black-list">Black list</dt>
<dd>External origin will be checked against the associated <a class="reference internal" href="match_lists.xhtml#match-lists"><span class="std std-ref">Match Lists</span></a>,
if a coincidence is found, the call will be rejected immediately.</dd>
<dt id="term-white-list">White list</dt>
<dd>External origin will be checked against the associated <a class="reference internal" href="match_lists.xhtml#match-lists"><span class="std std-ref">Match Lists</span></a>,
if a coincidence is found, the call will be directly routed to the DDI
destination, skipping the filter process. Take into account that black
listed are checked before white lists.</dd>
<dt id="term-holiday-locution">Holiday locution</dt>
<dd>The locution will be  played when the day is marked as holiday in any
of the calendars associated with the filter <strong>if the calendar entry has
no locution</strong> for that day.</dd>
<dt id="term-holiday-forward-type">Holiday forward type</dt>
<dd>After playing the above locution (if configured), call can be forwarded
to a voicemail, external number or internal extension. For example, the
filter of the image will redirect calls during holidays to the external
number 676 676 676.</dd>
<dt id="term-out-of-schedule-locution">Out of schedule locution</dt>
<dd>The locution will be played when, not being holiday, the current time
is not in any of the time gaps defined in the schedules assigned to the
filter.</dd>
<dt id="term-out-of-schedule-forward-type">Out of schedule forward type</dt>
<dd>Like in the holidays forward, but for out of schedule. The image above
won&#8217;t apply any forward (and the call will be hung up).</dd>
<dt id="term-calendars">Calendars</dt>
<dd>One or more calendars can be associated with the filter. The combination
of all the calendars will be applied.</dd>
<dt id="term-schedules">Schedules</dt>
<dd>One or more schedules can be applied. The combination of all the time
gaps defined in the schedules will be applied.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Atención</p>
<p class="last">Holidays are processed <strong>before</strong> out of schedule events.</p>
</div>
<p>In the next section we will use this new created filter with
<a class="reference internal" href="../ddis.xhtml#ddis"><span class="std std-ref">DDIs</span></a> so we can configure a welcome locution for normal days,
and especial behaviours for holidays and out of schedule events.</p>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>