<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Call recordings</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../../retail/index.xhtml" title="Retail Clients"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="call_csv_schedulers.xhtml" title="Call CSV schedulers"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider halliday documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Residential Clients</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Calls</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="call-recordings">
<h1>Call recordings</h1>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Attention</p>
<p class="last">Beware that local legislation may enforce to announce that the
call is being recorded (sometimes to both parties). You should include
a recording disclaimer in your welcome locutions for DDIs with automatic
recording enabled.</p>
</div>
<p>IvozProvider supports two different ways of recording calls:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>Automatic recordings</strong> for the incoming/outgoing calls that use a
<a class="reference internal" href="../../../brand/views/ddis.xhtml#ddis"><span class="std std-ref">External DDI</span></a>.</li>
<li><strong>On demand recordings</strong> requested by a user during a call.</li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="automatic-ddi-recordings">
<h2>Automatic DDI recordings</h2>
<p>In this type of recording, <strong>the whole conversation will be recorded</strong>: from
the start until it finishes.</p>
<p>Two different scenarios:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>Incoming calls to a DDI</strong>: The call will continue until the external
dialer hangups (no matter whom is talking to).</li>
<li><strong>Outgoing calls using a DDI</strong> as <a class="reference internal" href="../../../brand/views/ddis.xhtml#ddis"><span class="std std-ref">Outgoing DDI</span></a>: the
recording will continue as long as the external destination keeps in the
conversation.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Attention</p>
<p class="last">Take into account that the call will be recorded while the
external entity is present, even it the call is being transferred between
multiple users of the platform.</p>
</div>
<p class="rubric">Record all the calls of a DDI</p>
<p>To enable this feature, edit the DDI and configure the field under the section
recording data:</p>
<p>There are 4 available options:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Disable recordings</li>
<li>Enable incoming recordings</li>
<li>Enable outgoing recordings</li>
<li>Enable all call recordings</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="on-demand-recordings">
<h2>On demand recordings</h2>
<p>The <em>on-demand</em> recordings must be enabled by the <em>brand administrator</em> for the
clients that request it. This can be done in the client edit screen:</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">Contrary to the <a class="reference internal" href="../../vpbx/services.xhtml#services"><span class="std std-ref">Services</span></a> mentioned in the
previous section, the on demand record are activated within a conversation.</p>
</div>
<p>Contrary to automatic ones, on demand recording can be stopped using the same
process that started them.</p>
<div class="section" id="activated-using-the-record-key">
<h3>Activated using the <em>Record</em> key</h3>
<p>Some terminals (for example, <em>Yealink</em>) support sending a <a class="reference external" href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6086">SIP INFO</a><span class="link-target"> [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6086]</span> message during the conversation with a
special <em>Record</em> header (see <a class="reference external" href="http://www.yealink.com/Upload/document/UsingCallRecordingFeatureonYealinkPhones/UsingCallRecordingFeatureonYealinkSIPT2XPphonesRev_610-20561729764.pdf">reference</a><span class="link-target"> [http://www.yealink.com/Upload/document/UsingCallRecordingFeatureonYealinkPhones/UsingCallRecordingFeatureonYealinkSIPT2XPphonesRev_610-20561729764.pdf]</span>).
This is not a standard for the protocol, but being Yealink one of the supported
manufacturers of the solution, we include this kind of on-demand recording.</p>
<div class="admonition important">
<p class="first admonition-title">Important</p>
<p class="last">For this recording requests, the configured code doesn&#8217;t matter
but the client still must have on demand records enabled.</p>
</div>
<p>To start or stop this kind of recordings, just press the Record key in the
terminal and the system will handle the sent message.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="activated-using-dtmf-codes">
<h3>Activated using <em>DTMF</em> codes</h3>
<p>The more traditional approach for this feature is to press a combination of
keys during the call. Some notification will be played and the recording will
start or stop. This combination is sent to the system using <a class="reference external" href="https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marcaci%C3%B3n_por_tonos">DTMF tones</a><span class="link-target"> [https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Marcaci%C3%B3n_por_tonos]</span> using the same audio
stream that the conversation (as mentioned in <a class="reference external" href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4733">RFC 4733</a><span class="link-target"> [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4733]</span>).</p>
<p>IvozProvider supports this kind of on demand record activation but with an
important downside. In order to capture this codes, the pbx must process each
audio packet to detect the code, avoiding the direct flow of media between the
final endpoints.</p>
<div class="admonition important">
<p class="first admonition-title">Important</p>
<p class="last">Enabling this record mode highly affects the performance of the
platform. Use at your own risk.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="recordings-list">
<h2>Recordings list</h2>
<p>The <em>client administrator</em> can access to all the recordings in the section
<strong>Client configuration</strong> &gt; <strong>Calls</strong> &gt; <strong>Call recordings</strong>:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Recordings can be heard from the <em>web</em> or downloaded in MP3 format.</li>
<li>If the recording has been started on demand, it will also include the user
that requested it.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Recording removal button is shown only if <strong>Allow Client to remove recordings</strong> is enabled
for the client in <em>Client configuration</em>.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>