<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>SIP Antiflooding</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="geoip_filter.xhtml" title="GeoIP filter"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="firewall.xhtml" title="Cortafuegos"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Seguridad</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="sip-antiflooding">
<h1>SIP Antiflooding</h1>
<p>SIP Proxies included in IvozProvider installation for SIP signalling use
<a class="reference external" href="http://kamailio.org/docs/modules/5.1.x/modules/pike.html">PIKE module</a><span class="link-target"> [http://kamailio.org/docs/modules/5.1.x/modules/pike.html]</span> to avoid DoS attacks.</p>
<p>This module keeps trace of incoming request&#8217;s IP address and blocks the ones that exceed the limit on a given time
interval.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last"><strong>IPs are not blocked permanently</strong>, they are blocked for 5 minutes. After this time, they are allowed again
as long as their incoming request rate don&#8217;t exceed the limit.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last"><a class="reference internal" href="../../administration_portal/platform/antiflood_banned_ips.xhtml#antiflood-banned-ips"><span class="std std-ref">Antiflood banned IPs</span></a> shows a list of addresses that have been banned at some point.</p>
</div>
<p>Los parámetros actuales son:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><p class="first"><strong>Período de muestreo</strong>: 2 segundos.</p>
</li>
<li><strong>Threshold per time unit</strong>: 100 requests.</li>
</ul>
<p>This means that <em>any IP address that sends more than 100 requests in a 2-second-time-interval will be blocked (ignored)
for 5 minutes. After this time, it will be unblocked and its request rate will be evaluated again</em>.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">Be aware that some requests are not taken into account by antiflood, continue reading please.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="which-requests-are-taken-into-account-in-kamusers">
<h2>Which requests are taken into account in KamUsers?</h2>
<p>Client side requests usually traverse 2 different phases:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Step 0: initial checks, endpoint identification and authentication.</li>
<li>Step 1: remaining logic.</li>
</ul>
<p>Antiflood will take into account:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Requests failing during step 0:<ul>
<li>Requests not using SIP domain in KamUsers (except wholesale).</li>
<li>Requests from non-existing AoRs in KamUsers.</li>
<li>Requests failing SIP authentication with wrong passwords in KamUsers.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Initial INVITE requests reaching step 1 (aka: new call establishments of legitimate clients).</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Note that antiflood will not take into account successful REGISTER/SUBSCRIBE cycles.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="which-requests-are-taken-into-account-in-kamtrunks">
<h2>Which requests are taken into account in KamTrunks?</h2>
<p>Antiflood will take into account:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>SIP OPTIONS from non-DDIproviders.</li>
<li>Non-DDIproviders talking to KamTrunks.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Note that antiflood will not take into account DDI Provider requests to KamTrunks.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>