<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Conditional routes</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="friends/index.xhtml" title="Friends"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="queues.xhtml" title="Queues"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - halliday</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Clientes vPBX</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Routing endpoints</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="id1">
<span id="conditional-routes"></span><span id="id2"></span><h1>Conditional routes</h1>
<p>Conditional routes allows changing a call logic depending on:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Who is calling.</li>
<li>What time is calling.</li>
<li>What day is calling.</li>
<li>Status of selected route locks.</li>
</ul>
<p>These routes are electable in three sections:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>DDIs</li>
<li>Extensions</li>
<li>IVR custom options</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Remaining sections could use conditional routes creating an extension
that point to a conditional route first, and routing to this extension.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="creating-a-conditional-route">
<h2>Creating a conditional route</h2>
<p>First of all we create a conditional route in <strong>Conditional routes</strong> section.</p>
<p>On creation we define what should be done with a call that does not satisfy any
of the rules added bellow.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="adding-rules">
<h2>Adding rules</h2>
<p>Once created, we need to add rules, for example:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Calls from Japan and Germany received in the morning to an specific user</li>
<li>Calls from Japan and Germany received in the afternoon to another user</li>
<li>Override the reception IVR for summer days</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="evaluating-conditional-routes">
<h2>Evaluating conditional routes</h2>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Rules are evaluated following the metric parameter. Once a rule matches, its
logic is applied.</li>
<li>Rules may have from 1 to 4 criteria:<ul>
<li>None, one or more matchlist (pre-created, see <a class="reference internal" href="../routing_tools/match_lists.xhtml#match-lists"><span class="std std-ref">Match Lists</span></a>)</li>
<li>None, one or more schedules (pre-created, see <a class="reference internal" href="../routing_tools/schedules.xhtml#schedules"><span class="std std-ref">Schedules</span></a>)</li>
<li>None, one or more calendar (pre-created, see <a class="reference internal" href="../routing_tools/calendars.xhtml#calendars"><span class="std std-ref">Calendars</span></a>)</li>
<li>None, one or more route locks (pre-created, see <a class="reference internal" href="../routing_tools/route_locks.xhtml#id1"><span class="std std-ref">Route locks</span></a>)</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>These 4 criteria are combined (applying an AND logic).</li>
<li>If all used criterias in a rule are fulfilled, its logic is applied.</li>
</ul>
<p>This is how each criteria is evaluated:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Matchlist criteria</dt>
<dd>If caller number matches any of selected matchlist(s), this criteria is considered fulfilled.</dd>
<dt>Schedule criteria</dt>
<dd>If current time is included in any of selected schedules, this criteria is considered fulfilled.</dd>
<dt>Calendar criteria</dt>
<dd><ul class="first last simple">
<li>If current day is marked as holiday in any of selected calendars, this criteria is considered fulfilled.</li>
<li>If current day is marked as non-wholeday holiday in any of selected calendars and current time is included
in its interval, this criteria is considered fulfilled.</li>
</ul>
</dd>
<dt>Lock criteria</dt>
<dd>If one of selected route locks is open, this criteria is considered fulfilled.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last"><a class="reference internal" href="../routing_tools/calendars.xhtml#calendar-periods"><span class="std std-ref">Calendar Periods</span></a> linked to selected calendars are not taken into account.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="ddi-routed-to-a-conditional-route">
<h2>DDI routed to a conditional route</h2>
<p>Imagine this scenario: DDI has an external call filter and is routed to the new conditional route.</p>
<p>When a call is received:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>External call filter is evaluated:<ul>
<li>If current day is marked in any calendar, the holiday logic applies.</li>
<li>If current time is not inside any time-gap, out-of-schedule logic applies.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>If external call filter logics have not applied, conditional route is evaluated.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Atención</p>
<p class="last">Conditional route is not intended as an external call filter
replacement. Filter is evaluated first, conditional route afterwards.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>