<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Call CSV schedulers</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../settings/index.xhtml" title="Settings"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="external_calls.xhtml" title="External calls"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - halliday</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Calls</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="call-csv-schedulers">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Call CSV schedulers</h1>
<p>This section allows programming automatic periodical CSV reports to brand operators.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">This section is almost identical to <a class="reference internal" href="../invoicing/invoice_schedulers.xhtml#invoice-schedulers"><span class="std std-ref">Invoice schedulers</span></a> except to the
fields that do not apply to CSVs (Invoice number sequence, Tax rate...)</p>
</div>
<p>When adding a new definition, these fields are shown:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Name of the scheduled Call CSV</dd>
<dt>Email</dt>
<dd>Send generated Call CSV via email. Empty if no automatic mail is wanted.</dd>
<dt>Client type</dt>
<dd>Selecting <em>All</em> will generate a CSV containing calls of all clients. Selecting one client type
will allow selecting one specific client of that type.</dd>
<dt>Notification template</dt>
<dd>Used on email notifications for schedulers containing calls of all clients. In client specific
schedulers, the notification template assigned to the specific client will be used.</dd>
<dt>Frequency/Unit</dt>
<dd>Defines the frequency (once a month, every 7 days, etc.) of the programmed task</dd>
<dt>Direction</dt>
<dd>Defines which calls should be included attending to its direction (inbound, outbound, both).</dd>
<dt>Carrier</dt>
<dd>Only for <em>Direction: outbound</em> reports, allows filtering calls of one specific carrier.</dd>
<dt>Client</dt>
<dd>Only for <em>Client type</em> different from <em>All</em>, allows selecting one specific client of chosen type.</dd>
<dt>DDI</dt>
<dd>Lists all DDIs of chosen client to get only calls from/to that specific DDI.</dd>
<dt>Endpoint type</dt>
<dd>Allows selecting one specific endpoint type of chosen client. Depending on client type, different values will
be listed.</dd>
<dt>Residential device</dt>
<dd>Only for <em>Client type: residential</em> and <em>Endpoint type: residential device</em>, allows selecting one specific residential device of chosen client.</dd>
<dt>Retail account</dt>
<dd>Only for <em>Client type: retail</em>, allows selecting one specific retail account of chosen client.</dd>
<dt>User</dt>
<dd>Only for <em>Client type: vpbx</em> and <em>Endpoint type: user</em>, allows selecting one specific user of chosen client.</dd>
<dt>Fax</dt>
<dd>Only for <em>Client type: vpbx/residential</em> and <em>Endpoint type: fax</em>, allows selecting one specific fax of chosen client.</dd>
<dt>Friend</dt>
<dd>Only for <em>Client type: vpbx</em> and <em>Endpoint type: friend</em>, allows selecting one specific friend of chosen client.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<p>Once created, some new fields and subsections are accesible:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Next execution</dt>
<dd>Shows next execution date</dd>
<dt>Last execution</dt>
<dd>Shows last execution and its result.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Modifying <em>Next execution</em> value allows forcing specific runs. For example, setting <em>Next execution</em> to
current month&#8217;s first day will create again last month&#8217;s CSV report (for a monthly scheduler).</p>
</div>
<p>Generated CSVs of each scheduler can be accessed in <strong>List of Call CSV reports</strong> subsection.</p>
<div class="section" id="csv-fields">
<h2>CSV fields</h2>
<p>These are the fields of the generated CSV files:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>callid</dt>
<dd>Call-ID of the SIP dialog</dd>
<dt>startTime</dt>
<dd>Time and date of the call establishment</dd>
<dt>duration</dt>
<dd>Call duration in seconds</dd>
<dt>caller</dt>
<dd>Caller number in E.164 format (with &#8216;+&#8217;)</dd>
<dt>callee</dt>
<dd>Callee number in E.164 format (with &#8216;+&#8217;)</dd>
<dt>cost</dt>
<dd>Calculated cost for the given call</dd>
<dt>price</dt>
<dd>Calculated price for the given call</dd>
<dt>endpointType</dt>
<dd>Possible values: RetailAccount, ResidentialDevice, User, Fax, Friend.</dd>
<dt>endpointId</dt>
<dd>Internal ID of specific endpoint (only when <em>endpointType</em> is non-empty).</dd>
<dt>endpointName</dt>
<dd>User extension, friend name, fax name, retail account name or residential device name (only when <em>endpointId</em> is non-empty).</dd>
<dt>direction</dt>
<dd>Possible values: inbound, outbound.</dd>
<dt>companyId</dt>
<dd>Client ID</dd>
<dt>carrierId</dt>
<dd>Only for outbound calls, internal ID of used carrier</dd>
<dt>ddiProviderId</dt>
<dd>Only for inbound calls, internal ID of used DDI Provider</dd>
<dt>ddiId</dt>
<dd>Client DDI to which call will be assigned (callee for inbound calls, caller for outbound calls). Empty for
wholesale clients.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="ddi-provider-detection">
<h2>DDI Provider detection</h2>
<p>DDI Provider detection deserves a deeper explanation as is not as unambiguous as Carrier (carrier is the one chosen by
routing logic, no doubt here).</p>
<p>DDI Provider detection logic is directly related to underlying DDI detection logic.</p>
<p>When IvozProvider receives an INVITE to KamTrunks from an outside entity:</p>
<ol class="arabic">
<li><p class="first">Source IP is compared against all DDI Providers addresses (from all brands).</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>If none matches, call is rejected.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p class="first">DDI is transformated in a loop using matching DDI Providers transformation rules (the lower id, the first).</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">As soon as transformated DDI matches a DDI (in E.164) within the same brand, loop ends and call is accepted.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>If loop ends without any match, call is rejected.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
</ol>
<p>The DDI Provider that allowed that match is saved as DDI Provider for that inbound all, except:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Matched DDI is linked to another DDI Provider that also matches source IP address. If this happens, linked DDI Provider
is saved instead.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="using-csv-scheduler-as-a-one-shot-csv-generator">
<h2>Using CSV scheduler as a one-shot CSV generator</h2>
<p><em>External Calls</em> section can filter list and export resulting rows to CSV, but filter criteria are much powerful in
<em>Call CSV schedulers</em> section.</p>
<p>That&#8217;s why <strong>it could be useful to use this section even if we are not interested in scheduling any recurring CSV</strong>.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">Scheduling a CSV to generate just a CSV could be useful as <em>Call CSV Schedulers</em> have more filtering criteria
than <em>External Calls</em> section.</p>
</div>
<p>Imagine you need:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Start date: 2020/06/02 (included)</li>
<li>End date: 2020/06/14 (included)</li>
<li>Client: XXX (vpbx)</li>
<li>Inbound calls to YYY DDI answered by user ZZZ</li>
</ul>
<p>To achieve such a CSV using schedules section we would <strong>create a scheduler</strong> with these inputs:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Client Type: vpbx</li>
<li>Client: XXX</li>
<li>DDI: YYY</li>
<li>Endpoint Type: user</li>
<li>User: ZZZ</li>
<li>Direction: inbound.</li>
<li>Unit: days.</li>
<li>Frequency: 13</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Get sure you set <em>Unit</em> to days and <em>Frequency</em> to the amount of days wanted in resulting CSV. In the example,
from 2nd of June to 14th, both included, we have 13 days.</p>
</div>
<p>Once generated, we would <strong>edit Next execution time</strong> from tomorrow&#8217;s date to 2020/06/15, leaving time unchanged.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Get sure you modify <em>Next execution</em> to the first day not wanted in resulting CSV.</p>
</div>
<p>Then we will <strong>wait a few minutes</strong> until scheduler generates our CSV, <strong>download</strong> it and <strong>delete the row to avoid recurrent
CSV generation</strong>.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>