<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Destination Rates</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="destinations.xhtml" title="Destinations"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="rating_plans.xhtml" title="Rating plans"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Billing</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="destination-rates">
<span id="destination-rate"></span><h1>Destination Rates</h1>
<p>A <em>Destination rate</em> groups some prefixes with their cost details.</p>
<p>They only have two fields:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Name to reference the destination rate</dd>
<dt id="term-description">Description</dt>
<dd>Additional details</dd>
<dt id="term-currency">Currency</dt>
<dd>All rates imported/added will use this currency</dd>
<dt id="term-deductible-connection-fee">Deductible Connection Fee</dt>
<dd>Set to &#8216;No&#8217; for typical fee charged at call establishment. Set to &#8216;Yes&#8217; to enable
minimal-cost-alike behaviour (read below).</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Destination rate names are not shown to the final client, you can use whatever makes sense to you.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="deductible-connection-fee-minimal-cost">
<h2>Deductible Connection Fee (Minimal Cost)</h2>
<p>When Destination Rate has <em>Deductible Connection Fee</em> set to yes, all rates&#8217; Connection Fee will behave like Minimal Cost.</p>
<p>This is underlying logic:</p>
<ul>
<li><p class="first">When call is established, Connection Fee of matched prefix is charged.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">When call is hung up:</p>
<ul>
<li><p class="first">Total cost without connection fee is calculated (CostWithoutConnectionFee):</p>
<ul>
<li><p class="first">If is greater than connection fee, connection fee is subtracted from total cost.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Final connection fee: 0</li>
<li>Final cost: CostWithoutConnectionFee</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p class="first">If is lower than connection fee, connection fee is adjusted so that total cost is equal to connection fee.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Final connection fee: ConnectionFee - CostWithoutConnectionFee</li>
<li>Final cost: ConnectionFee</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li><p class="first">In both cases, cost difference is refunded to affected balances.</p>
</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p class="rubric">Connection fee 0.01 - Total cost 0.21</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Cost without connection fee: 0.20</li>
<li>As 0.20 &gt; 0.01:<ul>
<li>Call cost is reduced to 0.20</li>
<li>0.01 is refunded to affected balances</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p class="rubric">Connection fee 0.01 - Total cost 0.013</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Cost without connection fee: 0.003</li>
<li>As 0.003 &lt; 0.01:<ul>
<li>Call cost is reduced to 0.01</li>
<li>0.003 is refunded to affected balances</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>This setting guarantees a minimal cost of 0.01.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="add-rates-manually">
<h2>Add rates manually</h2>
<p>Brand operator can add rates by hand, filling these fields (<strong>List of rates</strong> subsection):</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-destination">Destination</dt>
<dd>Pre-created destination that specifies a concrete prefix.</dd>
<dt id="term-connection-charge">Connection charge</dt>
<dd>The amount that is charged just for call establishment.</dd>
<dt id="term-interval-start">Interval start</dt>
<dd>When should the billing engine start rating the calls. If you set it to 10, first 10 seconds will be for free.</dd>
<dt id="term-per-minute-rate">Per minute rate</dt>
<dd>Price per minute of conversation.</dd>
<dt id="term-charge-period">Charge period</dt>
<dd>Increase cost every seconds? Or in 10 second intervals? Or every minute?</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">A call with less duration that the one defined in interval start will have the price of the <strong>Connection fee</strong>.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">All decimals must use point as decimal delimiter. 4 decimals precision is used.</p>
</div>
<p class="rubric">How it works</p>
<p>Call cost/price is increased by (<em>Per minute rate</em> / 60 ) * <em>charge period</em> every <em>charge period</em> seconds:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>If <em>billing period</em> is set to 1, every second the price will be increased
<em>price per minute</em> divided by 60 (bill by seconds).</li>
<li>If <em>billing period</em> is set to 60, every minute the price will be increased
<em>price per minute</em> (bill by minutes).</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="importing-a-csv-file">
<h2>Importing a CSV file</h2>
<p>At this point, the brand operator may have noticed that adding thousands
of rates would be a really annoying and time consuming task, as there
are 254 countries, each of them with their mobile networks, landline networks,
special service numbers, etc.</p>
<p>That&#8217;s why the creation of destination rates is done using a
<a class="reference external" href="https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSV">CSV</a><span class="link-target"> [https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSV]</span> file.</p>
<p>The first step is creating an empty <em>Destination rate</em> to import the prices in and using <strong>Import rates</strong> option.</p>
<p>We can select which column contains which field, in case we want to import a
<a class="reference external" href="https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSV">CSV</a><span class="link-target"> [https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/CSV]</span> file in a non-recommended format. We
can also decide whether to import the first line or discard it as it may have
titles instead of data.</p>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p class="last">The importing process is done in background, letting the brand operator
continue doing other stuff while it is finished.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="csv-format">
<h3>CSV format</h3>
<p>Although the import window allows importing non-recommended format CSV files,
we encourage you to import a file in the proposed format, as it will make
this process much easier:</p>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">Comma is the only allowed separator character.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">Single quotes are not supported.</p>
</div>
<p>You can find a sample CSV for importing <a class="reference external" href="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/irontec/ivozprovider/artemis/web/admin/samples/pricesSample.csv">here</a><span class="link-target"> [https://raw.githubusercontent.com/irontec/ivozprovider/artemis/web/admin/samples/pricesSample.csv]</span>.</p>
<p>The order of the columns should be:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Destination name</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">If they contain any comma, they MUST be quoted with double quotes. Otherwise, double quotes are optional.</p>
</div>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Destination prefix</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">MUST start with + sign.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">If same prefix is used in multiple times in CSV file, import process will fail.</p>
</div>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Per minute rate</li>
<li>Connection charge</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">MUST use point as decimal separator.</p>
</div>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Charge period</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Given in seconds, only integers greater or equal 1 are supported.</p>
</div>
<p>Once the import process is over, we only have to include this destination rate into some
rating plan and bind it to the clients/carriers we want following the procedure explained in
<a class="reference internal" href="rating_plans.xhtml#rating-plans"><span class="std std-ref">Rating plans</span></a>.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="re-importing-a-csv-file">
<h2>Re-importing a CSV file</h2>
<p>Once a CSV (first.csv) is imported into an empty destination-rates row, you can <strong>import another CSV</strong> (second.csv).</p>
<p>However, it is <strong>important to understand what happens</strong> when you do so:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Prefixes in both CSV will get its rate <strong>updated</strong> with second&#8217;s CSV one.</li>
<li>Prefixes existing only in the first CSV file will be <strong>kept</strong>.</li>
<li>Prefixes existing only in the second CSV file will be <strong>added</strong>.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">Downloading CSV using <em>Imported file</em> option will always download <strong>last imported CSV file</strong> (no the
combination of both as described above).</p>
</div>
<p>Note that if both <em>first.csv</em> and <em>second.csv</em> contain exactly the same prefixes, resulting destination-rate will be as
we had only imported <em>second.csv</em>. And downloading <em>Imported file</em> will download <em>second.csv</em>, that is exactly the current
state of destination-rate.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>