<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Rating plans</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="destination_rates.xhtml" title="Destination Rates"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Billing"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Billing</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="rating-plans">
<h1>Rating plans</h1>
<p>Rating plans describe how calls are rated for different destinations at different times of the day.</p>
<div class="section" id="rating-plan-definition">
<h2>Rating plan definition</h2>
<p><a class="reference internal" href="destination_rates.xhtml#destination-rates"><span class="std std-ref">Destination Rates</span></a> are grouped using Rating plans. This offers the possibility to have base pricing data and customize
some destinations with different prices at different times of the day.</p>
<p>This are the fields that define a Rating plan:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Name that will be use to reference this rating plan.</dd>
<dt id="term-description">Description</dt>
<dd>A field to enter additional information. Not used anywhere.</dd>
<dt id="term-currency">Currency</dt>
<dd>All destination rates grouped must use this currency.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Rating plan names appear on final clients&#8217; invoices, choose something with commercial sense.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="adding-destination-rates-to-rating-plan">
<h2>Adding Destination rates to Rating Plan</h2>
<p>Rating plans group several <a class="reference internal" href="destination_rates.xhtml#destination-rates"><span class="std std-ref">Destination Rates</span></a> to allow flexible configuration that rate destinations differently
at different times of the day (<strong>List of destination rates</strong> subsection).</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-destination-rate">Destination rate</dt>
<dd>Adds selected destination rate to rating plan</dd>
<dt id="term-weight">Weight</dt>
<dd>If a given call can be billed with more than one destination rate within the rating plan,
it will be billed using the one with highest weight.</dd>
<dt id="term-timing-type">Timing type</dt>
<dd>Should this association apply always or just at given times of the week?</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Weight allows having a general <em>Destination rate</em> and concrete the price of
a specific destination in another <em>destination rate</em> with higher weight (free cell
phone calls, for example).</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">A rating plan MUST be capable of rating calls 24x7. Adding the timings of all destination rates in a rating
plan MUST cover every moment of the week.</p>
</div>
<p class="rubric">Checking Rating plans</p>
<p>To check the configuration so far we can <strong>Simulate a call</strong> from the rating plans list.</p>
<p>We introduce the destination number in <a class="reference internal" href="../settings/numeric_transformations.xhtml#e164"><span class="std std-ref">E.164 format</span></a>, and we can check the price every rating plan on the
list will charge for that call.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Rating plans can be linked to both Clients (for price calculation) and Carriers (for cost calculation).</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="assigning-rating-plans-to-clients">
<h2>Assigning rating plans to clients</h2>
<p>An specific <strong>rating plan</strong> can be linked to multiple clients.</p>
<p>In the section <strong>Brand configuration</strong> &gt; <strong>Virtual PBXs</strong> (<strong>Residential</strong>, <strong>Retail</strong> and <strong>Wholesale</strong>) we select
<strong>List of Rating Plans</strong> subsection.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">Every <strong>Rating plan</strong> has an activation time and only one can be active for each
client at a specific moment (the one whose activation time is nearer in the past).</p>
</div>
<p class="rubric">Simulating a call of a specific client</p>
<p>In this list we can also simulate a call for a given client like we did previously
in the rating plan list and check the price it will imply. This way, we can be sure
that the configuration is ok.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Active rating plan of a given client will be used to set Price for its calls.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="assigning-rating-plans-to-carriers">
<h2>Assigning rating plans to carriers</h2>
<p>An specific <strong>rating plan</strong> can be linked to multiple carriers to calculate cost of calls (see <a class="reference internal" href="../providers/carriers.xhtml#cost-calculation"><span class="std std-ref">Cost calculation</span></a>).</p>
<p>In the section <strong>Brand configuration</strong> &gt; <strong>Providers</strong> &gt; <strong>Carriers</strong> we select <strong>List of Rating Plans</strong> subsection.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">Every <strong>Rating plan</strong> has an activation time and only one can be active for each
client at a specific moment (the one whose activation time is nearer in the past).</p>
</div>
<p class="rubric">Simulating a call of a specific carrier</p>
<p>In this list we can also simulate a call for a given carrier like we did previously
in the rating plan list and check the price it will imply. This way, we can be sure
that the configuration is ok.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Active rating plan of a given carrier will be used to set Cost for calls established using it.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>