<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>DDI Providers</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../routing/index.xhtml" title="Routing"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="carriers.xhtml" title="Carriers"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider halliday documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Providers</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="ddi-providers">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>DDI Providers</h1>
<p>DDI Providers are the SIP entities that will contact the platform when someone calls to one of our client&#8217;s DDIs.</p>
<p>This are the fields that define a carrier:</p>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p>Some fields described below may not be visible depending on enabled features.</p>
<dl class="last docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Used to reference this Carrier.</dd>
<dt>Description</dt>
<dd>Optional field with any required extra information.</dd>
<dt>Numeric Transformation</dt>
<dd>Transformation that will be applied to the origin and destination of the
outgoing numbers that use this Carrier
(see <a class="reference internal" href="../settings/numeric_transformations.xhtml#numeric-transformations"><span class="std std-ref">Numeric transformations</span></a>).</dd>
<dt>Local socket</dt>
<dd>Selected address will be used as source address for signalling with this DDI provider. Brand operator can choose among
addresses assigned by main operator via <a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/brands.xhtml#brands"><span class="std std-ref">Brands</span></a>. Read <a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/infrastructure/proxy_trunks.xhtml#proxy-trunks"><span class="std std-ref">Proxy Trunks</span></a> for further details.</dd>
<dt>Media relay set</dt>
<dd>Media-relays can be grouped in sets to reserve capacities or on a geographical purpose. Selected set will be used
in calls through this specific DDI Provider. This field in only seen by Global administrator (aka God).</dd>
</dl>
</div>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p class="last">If you want carrier-side media handled by the same mediarelay set than client-side, select &#8220;Client&#8217;s default&#8221;.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="ddi-provider-addresses">
<h2>DDI Provider Addresses</h2>
<p>The platform will recognize a DDI provider comparing SIP message&#8217;s source address with the addresses in this list:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>IP address</dt>
<dd>Used to reference this Carrier.</dd>
<dt>Description</dt>
<dd>Optional field with any required extra information.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Once the DDI provider is recognized, its numeric transformations will be applied and the DDI will be searched.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="ddi-provider-registrations">
<h2>DDI Provider Registrations</h2>
<p>Some DDI providers require a <a class="reference external" href="https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3261#section-10">SIP Register</a><span class="link-target"> [https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3261#section-10]</span> active in order to receive
incoming calls to our DDIs. Some of them, even require this register in order
to process our outgoing calls through their services.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">IvozProvider supports any kind of <em>peering</em>, but we highly recommend
<em>peer to peer peerings</em>: without authentication, without registry and
validated by IP. This will avoid unnecessary traffic (authentication in each
session and periodic registers) and simplifies its configuration, leaving this list empty.</p>
</div>
<p>To define a registration, these fields are shown:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Username</dt>
<dd>Account number or similar provider by the provider that requires SIP
register.</dd>
<dt>Domain</dt>
<dd>Domain or IP of the registrar server. Usually the same as the SIP proxy
of the Peer server.</dd>
<dt>Password</dt>
<dd>Password used in auth process.</dd>
<dt>Random contact Username</dt>
<dd>If set, no contact username will be needed as a random string will be used. The
DDI Provider is supposed to use the called DDI in the R-URI instead of this random string.</dd>
<dt>Contact username</dt>
<dd>This will be used in REGISTER message Contact header, making DDI provider to
contact us with this in the R-URI.</dd>
<dt>Auth username</dt>
<dd>Authentication user. Most of the time it&#8217;s the same as username, so
it&#8217;s recommended to leave empty.</dd>
<dt>Register server URI</dt>
<dd>Usually this can be left empty, as it can be obtained from the
Domain. If it is not the case, enter the IP address with the &#8216;sip:&#8217;
prefix.</dd>
<dt>Realm</dt>
<dd>Leave empty to accept the authentication realm proposed by the provider.
Define only if you are familiar to the authentication mechanism used
in SIP.</dd>
<dt>Expire</dt>
<dd>Default suggested register expire time.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Similar to the Carrier Servers, there are lots of fields in the screen.
You must have into account that most of the providers don&#8217;t require register,
and those who do, will only use user, domain and password.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>