<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Friends</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="remote_friends.xhtml" title="Remote friends"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../conditional_routes.xhtml" title="Conditional routes"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Clientes vPBX</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="../index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Routing endpoints</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="friends">
<h1>Friends</h1>
<p><strong>Friends</strong> section in the <strong>Client configuration</strong> allows interconnection of
IvozProvider with other SIP PBX systems through a SIP <em>trunk</em>. The most typical
use case is when a client have multiple PBX systems that want to integrate in
a single flow.</p>
<p>Since 2.10, <strong>Friends</strong> also lets a vPBX client to call to extensions of another
vPBX client in the same brand.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">It&#8217;s important to understand the difference between <strong>Carrier</strong>
defined by the <strong>brand operator</strong> to connect with the public network
and <strong>Friends</strong>, defined by <strong>client administrators</strong> to connect the
system with other PBXs.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last"><strong>Friends</strong> are so similar to <strong>Users</strong> that both talk SIP with the
<a class="reference internal" href="../../../../platform/infrastructure/proxy_users.xhtml#proxyusers"><span class="std std-ref">Proxy Users</span></a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="types-of-friends">
<h2>Types of friends</h2>
<p>There are 2 main types of Friends:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>Remote friends</strong>: SIP trunks to external SIP PBX system.</li>
<li><strong>Internal friends</strong>: connection between extensions of two vPBX client in the same brand.</li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="what-kind-of-calls-can-be-routed-through-an-internal-friend">
<h3>What kind of calls can be routed through an <em>internal friend</em>?</h3>
<p>IvozProvider will route a call received by a <a class="reference internal" href="../../users.xhtml#users"><span class="std std-ref">user</span></a> or a <a class="reference internal" href="#friends"><span class="std std-ref">friend</span></a> following this logic:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li>Destination matches an existing IvozProvider extension?</li>
<li>If not: Destination matches any <em>friend</em> regular expression (for remote friends) or extensions (for internal ones)? Ordered by priority (lower has precedence).</li>
<li>If not: This is an external call.</li>
</ol>
<p>Following sections explain both kind of friends:</p>
<div class="toctree-wrapper compound">
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="remote_friends.xhtml">Remote friends</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="internal_friends.xhtml">Internal friends</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="friend-call-forward">
<h1>Friend Call Forward</h1>
<p>The friend&#8217;s call forward can be configured with the <strong>List of call forward settings</strong>  button.</p>
<p>These are the fields and available values:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-call-type">Call Type</dt>
<dd>Determines if the forward must be applied to external, internal or any
type of call.</dd>
<dt id="term-forward-type">Forward type</dt>
<dd><dl class="first last docutils">
<dt>When this forward must be applied:</dt>
<dd><ul class="first last simple">
<li>Unconditional: always</li>
<li>No answer: when the call is not answered in X seconds</li>
<li>Busy: When the friend rejects an incoming call.</li>
<li>Not registered: when the friend is not registered against IvozProvider.</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
<dt id="term-target-type">Target type</dt>
<dd><dl class="first last docutils">
<dt>What route will use the forwarded call.</dt>
<dd><ul class="first last simple">
<li>VoiceMail</li>
<li>Number (external)</li>
<li>Extension (internal)</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">If we want to forward to other process, we can create an extension
routed to that object and use the target type <em>Extension</em>.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>