<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>ACLs</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="use_case.xhtml" title="Use Case"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="acls">
<h1>ACLs</h1>
<p>Credentials used for web access can be used with their API corresponding level. These administrators (global, brand, client)
have full access to all endpoints of their level.</p>
<p>Since 2.15, it is possible to create <strong>restricted administrators</strong> too.</p>
<div class="section" id="restricted-global-brand-administrators">
<h2>Restricted global/brand administrators</h2>
<p>Enabling global/brand administrator <strong>Restricted</strong> option makes this administrator special:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Cannot be used anymore to access web portal.</li>
<li>Full API endpoint access is restricted to read-only access to those endpoints.</li>
</ul>
<p>Privileges can be fine-tuned in <em>List of Administrator access privileges</em> subsection, where you can enable/disable
for each endpoint:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-create-privilege">Create privilege</dt>
<dd>Administrator with this privilege can create new items of given endpoint.</dd>
<dt id="term-read-privilege">Read privilege</dt>
<dd>Administrator with this privilege can read existing items of given endpoint. Just watch existing items, no
modification is allowed.</dd>
<dt id="term-update-privilege">Update privilege</dt>
<dd>Administrator with this privilege can modify existing items of given endpoint.</dd>
<dt id="term-delete-privilege">Delete privilege</dt>
<dd>Administrator with this privilege can delete existing items of given endpoint.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<ul class="last simple">
<li>Changing a non-rectricted administrator to restricted turns it into a read-only API-capable administrator.</li>
<li>Changing a restricted administrator to non-restricted turns it into a full access web+API capable administrator.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p class="last">You can easily select multiple endpoints in <em>List of Administrator access privileges</em> and revoke/grant them all.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="client-restricted-administrators">
<h2>Client restricted administrators</h2>
<p>Opposed to global/brand administrators, <strong>client restricted administrators can login into client web portal</strong>. As a
consequence, privileges of a given client administrator apply to:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Privileges for API integrations.</li>
<li>Web access to sections and available operations in those sections.</li>
</ul>
<p>Privileges can be fine-tuned in <em>List of Administrator access privileges</em> subsection too.</p>
<p class="rubric">Example 1: Recordings-only client administrator</p>
<p>To create a client administrator that only sees Recordings section:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li>Create a new restricted client administrator or turn a non-rectricted one into restricted.</li>
<li>Access to <strong>List of Administrator access privileges</strong>, select all endpoints and press <strong>Revoke access</strong>.</li>
<li>Edit <em>Recordings</em> endpoint and enable Read access.</li>
</ol>
<p class="rubric">Example 2: Fax-only client administrator</p>
<p>To create a client administrator that only sees Fax section and can send/receive faxes:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li>Create a new restricted client administrator or turn a non-restricted one into restricted.</li>
<li>Access to <strong>List of Administrator access privileges</strong>, select all endpoints and press <strong>Revoke access</strong>.</li>
<li>Edit <em>Faxes</em> endpoint and enable Read access.</li>
<li>Edit <em>FaxesFiles</em> endpoint and enable Create/Update access.</li>
</ol>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>