<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Configuring an external DDI</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../external_outgoing_calls/index.xhtml" title="Making external calls"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="peering.xhtml" title="Peering configuration"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Receiving external calls</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p>Once we have an agreement with a DDI provider and we have configured it in
the previous section, only two task are pending:</p>
<div class="section" id="configuring-an-external-ddi">
<span id="settingup-ddi"></span><h1>Configuring an external DDI</h1>
<p>The brand operator, responsible of these <em>peering</em> agreements with VoIP providers,
has the task to create the DDIs for each client.</p>
<p>Notice that in order to access this section, the brand operator (or <em>god</em>)
must have emulated the proper client and access the menu section <strong>Client
Configuration</strong>.</p>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Attention</p>
<p class="last">Section <strong>Client configuration &gt; DDIs</strong> is different when the
client administrator access than the displayed data when a global or brand
administrator does. Client administrator are unable to create or delete
DDIs, just edit the one created by the brand or god administrator.</p>
</div>
<p>Taking into account these concepts, we create a new DDI and fill the required
fields.</p>
<p>For detailed information about configuration fields, check <a class="reference internal" href="../../administration_portal/client/vpbx/ddis.xhtml#pbx-ddis"><span class="std std-ref">DDIs</span></a> section.</p>
<p class="rubric">Configure incoming routes</p>
<p>In the previous section, we have created the DDI and configure it (pointing it to user Alice),
but <strong>the most common procedure</strong> is that the brand operator just creates the DDI while the
<strong>client administrator</strong>, using the same section, <strong>configures</strong> it choosing
the correct route (user, hunt group, etc.), calendars filters and so on.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">At this point, calling the number of the configured DDI will make the
<em>Alice</em> phone ring.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>