<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>User Portal</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../security/index.xhtml" title="Security elements"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../provisioning/index.xhtml" title="Terminal provisioning"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Oasis documentation</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="user-portal">
<span id="userportal"></span><h1>User Portal</h1>
<p>IvozProvider provides a web portal where final users can do the following
actions:</p>
<ul>
<li><p class="first">See all calls he or she has been involved.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">Configure call forwards:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>To voicemail</li>
<li>To an internal extension</li>
<li>To an external number</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p class="first">Enable functionalities:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Call waiting</li>
<li>Do Not Disturb</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
<li><p class="first">See the state of his or her SIP device registration</p>
</li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="access-urls">
<h2>Access URLs</h2>
<p>Prior to accessing to user portal, the URL addresses must be configured (domains
in these URLs must point to any of the public IP addresses of the platform).</p>
<p>2 roles can perform this task:</p>
<div class="section" id="god-operator">
<h3>God operator</h3>
<p>In the section <strong>Platform configuration &gt; Brands</strong> you can configure as many
user URLs as you wish, using the button <strong>Portal list</strong> of each brand.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">URLs are linked to brands and god operator may choose where to create
one shared user portal URL for all the companies of a brand or creating
one per company.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">URLs MUST be HTTPS.</p>
</div>
<p>This section also allows setting a logo per URL, a theme and a phrase to use as
the title of user portal.</p>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p class="last">This allows creating corporative user portals.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="brand-operator">
<h3>Brand Operator</h3>
<p>Brand Operator can also perform this same task in order to configure the user
portal URLs of his companies.</p>
<p>This way, he can choose whether to configure one URL per Company (with custom
domains, logos, theme and title) or sharing a global URL for all of them.</p>
<p>The section to do this is <strong>Brand configuration &gt; Portal URLs</strong>.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="access-credentials">
<h2>Access credentials</h2>
<p>Access credentials to user portal is configured in <strong>Company configuration &gt;
Users</strong> section.</p>
<p>Specifically:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>Login information</strong> block, the access of each user is enabled or disabled.</li>
<li>You can set the <strong>Password</strong> too.</li>
<li>To log in the user portal, the user must use his/her email address.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">The <strong>email</strong> of each user MUST be <strong>globally unique</strong>.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2017, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>