<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Pick up groups</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="call_acls.xhtml" title="Call ACLs"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="outgoing_ddi_rules.xhtml" title="Outgoing DDI Rules"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Clientes vPBX</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">User configuration</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="pick-up-groups">
<span id="capture-groups"></span><h1>Pick up groups</h1>
<p>Call pickup is the process where a user can answer a call that is being ringing
in another terminal. No need to say that, somehow (sound, flashing lights,
notification, etc) the users must know that the call is ringing elsewhere.</p>
<p>IvozProvider supports two kind of call pickups:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-direct-pickup">Direct pickup</dt>
<dd>In this type of pickup, the user that is trying to capture the ringing
call must include the extension of the target phone after the service
code. For example, if the direct pickup code is *95, the user must
dial *95101 to capture a call that is ringing in the extension 101.</dd>
<dt id="term-group-pickup">Group pickup</dt>
<dd>In this type of pickup, the user that is trying to capture the ringing
call will just dial the service code. If anyone in any of the pickup
groups of the user has a ringing call, it will be answered by the
capturer.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="section" id="call-pickup-groups">
<h2>Call pickup groups</h2>
<p>In order to make <strong>call group pickups</strong>, the capturer user must be part of the
same group that the target user that wants to capture.</p>
<p>The section <strong>Pickup groups</strong> allows the client administrator to configure
what users will be in each group:</p>
<p>As shown in the section <a class="reference internal" href="../users.xhtml#users"><span class="std std-ref">Users</span></a>, we can add or edit the groups of a user
in the user&#8217;s edit screen.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">A user can be part of multiple pickup groups. The system will take
all of them into account when using the group pickup service.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="group-pickup-service-code">
<h2>Group pickup service code</h2>
<p>IvozProvider supports 2 different configuration levels for defining the service
codes for pickup:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>At brand level: <strong>Brand configuration</strong> &gt; <strong>Services</strong>.</li>
<li>At client level: <strong>Client configuration</strong> &gt; <strong>Services</strong>.</li>
</ul>
<p>The brand administrator can configure generic codes that all the clients will
use. Clients can customize this codes if they are used to another ones.</p>
<p>The <a class="reference internal" href="../../../platform/services.xhtml#services"><span class="std std-ref">following section</span></a> explains the services in depth, with
all the additional services that can be accessed by dialing codes starting with
*.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>