<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Invoices</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="invoice_schedulers.xhtml" title="Invoice schedulers"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Invoicing"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider halliday documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Invoicing</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="invoices">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Invoices</h1>
<p><strong>Invoices</strong> section lets <strong>brand operator</strong> generate invoices to issue to its clients and lists all invoices of all
clients, no matter if they were generated automatically or manually.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Brand administrators can also enable view mode on this section to their clients. Check Client&#8217;s Invoice data
configuration section for more information.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="generating-a-new-invoice">
<h2>Generating a new invoice</h2>
<p>These are the fields shown when <em>Add Invoice</em> options is used:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Invoice number sequence</dt>
<dd>Use next number of a predefined sequence or use custom number</dd>
<dt>Number</dt>
<dd>Only shown if no sequence number is used, lets brand operator to introduce a custom number</dd>
<dt>Client</dt>
<dd>The client whose calls will be invoiced</dd>
<dt>Template</dt>
<dd>Invoice template that will be used to generate the PDF invoice file</dd>
<dt>In/Out date</dt>
<dd>The time period of the calls that will be invoiced</dd>
<dt>Call discount</dt>
<dd>Percentage to discount calls, prior to tax rate calculation. No effect on fixed concepts.</dd>
<dt>Tax rate</dt>
<dd>Taxes to add to the final cost (e.g. VAT)</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<p>Once saved, some <a class="reference internal" href="fixed_costs.xhtml#fixed-costs"><span class="std std-ref">Fixed costs</span></a> can be added before generating the final invoice. This is achieved with <strong>Fixed costs</strong>
subsection, that allows adding several positive concepts to the invoice:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Fixed cost</dt>
<dd>Choose a predefined cost</dd>
<dt>Quantity</dt>
<dd>How many of this must be included</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<p>The last step is pressing <strong>Generate invoice</strong> suboption to create the final PDF. Afterwards, we can see which calls have been
included in a particular invoice with <strong>List of External Calls</strong> option or download the PDF file.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">Only outbound external calls are included into invoices</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last"><strong>Status</strong> column shows if the PDF generation task is waiting for async worker (<em>waiting</em>), in process (<em>processing</em>),
ended with errors (<em>failed</em>) or ended successfully (<em>created</em>). On blank, <em>Generate invoice</em> needs to be pressed.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="rules">
<h3>Rules</h3>
<p>Invoice subsystem enforces several rules before generating a new invoice:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>Proper date interval</strong>: <em>out date</em> must be bigger (after) than <em>in date</em>.</li>
<li><strong>Out date must be previous than today</strong>: Future dates or today&#8217;s calls cannot be invoiced.</li>
<li><strong>One call, one invoice:</strong> All calls in time interval cannot be included in any other invoice.</li>
<li><strong>All calls in interval must be billed</strong>.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">If any of these rules is not fulfilled, the invoice won&#8217;t be created and the system will warn.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="timezones">
<h3>Timezones</h3>
<p><em>In date</em> and <em>Out date</em> will be interpreted using brand timezone. On the other hand, call times in invoices are converted
to client timezone, leading to situations like this:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><em>In date</em>: 01/10/2018 00:00:00</li>
<li><em>Out date</em>: 31/10/2018 23:59:59</li>
<li>Brand timezone: UTC + 1</li>
<li>Client timezone: UTC - 1</li>
<li>Time interval in brand timezone: 01/10/2018 00:00 - 31/10/2018 23:59:59</li>
<li>Time interval in client timezone: 30/09/2018 22:00 - 31/10/2018 21:59:59</li>
</ul>
<p>Invoice generated for the client will have calls from 30nd of september at 22:00 to 31st of october at 21:59:59, which
may seem awkward to the client.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="regenerating-an-existing-invoice">
<h2>Regenerating an existing invoice</h2>
<p>Brand operator can edit any invoice parameter (as long as rules above are fulfilled), add/remove fixed concepts, etc. and
press <strong>Generate invoice</strong> again.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Whenever a change is made, <em>Status</em> column will change to blank to show that <em>Generate invoice</em> must be pressed.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="generate-invoice-for-rerated-calls">
<h3>Generate invoice for rerated calls</h3>
<p>If rating of any call included in an invoice is wrong, <a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/external_calls.xhtml#external-calls"><span class="std std-ref">External calls</span></a> section allows rerating it, as long as the
invoice that includes the call is previously deleted.</p>
<p>Once deleted and rerated, a new row can be added in <em>Invoices</em> section to include rerated calls.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="list-of-external-calls">
<h2>List of external calls</h2>
<p>You can see calls of a given invoice using this option. You will see the same fields as in <a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/external_calls.xhtml#external-calls"><span class="std std-ref">External calls</span></a>.</p>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">It is compulsory to have <strong>a valid brand URL</strong> in order to use <em>Export to CSV</em> feature in this subsection.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>