<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Queues</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="conditional_routes.xhtml" title="Conditional routes"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="hunt_groups.xhtml" title="Hunt groups"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider halliday documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >vPBX Clients</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Routing endpoints</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="queues">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Queues</h1>
<p>Easy queue behaviour was included in IvozProvider in 1.3 version. It is a simple
approach with <strong>the unique goal to provide the capability to handle more calls
than users attending them</strong>.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">Queues and callcenter are close terms but different. <strong>IvozProvider
is not a suitable product for callcenters</strong>, as it does not provide
advanced features that are crucial to them (reports, RT visualization,
queue related stat, etc.).</p>
</div>
<p><strong>In distributed installations</strong> using Queues is only compatible with an static
assignment or &#8216;hash based&#8217; distribution (see <strong>Distribute method</strong> <a class="reference internal" href="../../../brand/clients/virtual_pbx.xhtml#virtual-pbx"><span class="std std-ref">here</span></a>).</p>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p class="last">Brand operators can choose which Clients have queues (see <strong>Features</strong>
in <a class="reference internal" href="../../../../getting_started/internal_calls/brand_portal.xhtml#brand-configuration"><span class="std std-ref">Brand Configuration</span></a> and <a class="reference internal" href="../../../../getting_started/internal_calls/client_portal.xhtml#client-configuration"><span class="std std-ref">Client Configuration</span></a>).</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="queue-configuration">
<h2>Queue configuration</h2>
<p>This are the settings related to a queue:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Use to reference this queue</dd>
<dt>Weight</dt>
<dd>Prioritizes calls to an agent that attends calls in two (or more) calls. The
higher, the more prioritized.</dd>
<dt>Strategy</dt>
<dd>How will the queue deliver the calls? Calling to all agents, calling to a
random one?</dd>
<dt>Member call seconds</dt>
<dd>Defines how long will a call to an agent last.</dd>
<dt>Member rest seconds</dt>
<dd>Seconds between calls for an agent.</dd>
<dt>Prevent missed calls</dt>
<dd>When &#8216;Yes&#8217;, calls will never generate a missed call. When &#8216;No&#8217;, missed calls will be prevented only for RingAll
queues if someone answers.</dd>
<dt>Announce</dt>
<dd>Select a locution and its frequency. Caller waiting in the call will listen
to this locution.</dd>
<dt>Announce Position</dt>
<dd>Announce position when a caller enters a queue and after a fixed frequency.</dd>
<dt>Timeout configuration</dt>
<dd>Limits the time that a call can wait in a queue and the following behaviour.</dd>
<dt>Full Queue configuration</dt>
<dd>Limits the amount of people waiting in a call and the behaviour when this limit
it reached.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<p>Apart from creating a queue, you have to assign users to it. This users will have
a <strong>penalty: a user will not be selected to deliver a call if any user with lower
penalty is available</strong>.</p>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p class="last">A call can be sent to a queue selecting it in the &#8220;Route type&#8221; selectors
available in multiple sections of IvozProvider (extension to queue, DDI
to queue, etc.)</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p>When configuring a queue, you can prevent missed calls on called members with <strong>Prevent missed calls</strong> setting:</p>
<ul class="last simple">
<li><strong>Yes</strong>: calls generated by the queue will never generate missed calls on called members.</li>
<li><strong>No</strong>: The behaviour of this setting depends on the queue strategy:</li>
<li><strong>RingAll</strong>: calls generated by the queue will generate missed calls on called members only if none of them answers the call.</li>
<li><strong>Remaining types</strong>: calls generated by the queue will generate missed calls on every called member that does not answer the call.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="queue-strategy">
<h2>Queue strategy</h2>
<p>The queue strategy <strong>always applies to current penalty members</strong> starting with
the smallest penalty value and only going to the next penalty if all members of
current one are busy or unavailable.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Ring all</dt>
<dd>The call will make all the members of the current priority during a
predefined time.</dd>
<dt>Least recent</dt>
<dd>The call will <em>jump</em> from one member to another in a predefined order
based on the last time the member attended a call. Members whose latest
call is older will be called first.</dd>
<dt>Fewer calls</dt>
<dd>The call will <em>jump</em> from one member to another in a predefined order
based on the number of attended calls. Members that have attended less
calls will be called first.</dd>
<dt>Random</dt>
<dd>The call will <em>jump</em> from one member to another in a random order,
ringing during the configured time.</dd>
<dt>Round Robin memory</dt>
<dd>The call will <em>jump</em> from one member to another in a predefined order
starting past the last member that attended a call.</dd>
<dt>Linear</dt>
<dd>The call will <em>jump</em> from one member to another in a predefined order
based on the creation time of the member.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">A given penalty will never the called until all users with lower priority are on call.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last"><em>Linear</em> queues are special: a non-linear queue cannot be converted to linear.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>