<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Outgoing Routings</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="routing_patterns.xhtml" title="Routing patterns"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Routing"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - halliday</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Routing</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="outgoing-routings">
<span id="routes-weights"></span><span id="id1"></span><h1>Outgoing Routings</h1>
<p>This is the main section in which routing policies are defined.</p>
<p>These are the fields that define an outgoing routing:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Client</dt>
<dd>Should this route apply to all clients or just to one specific client?</dd>
<dt>Routing Tag</dt>
<dd>Routing tags allow clients to call to the same destination through different carriers. This field makes the
route valid for just one routing tag (or for none).</dd>
<dt>Call destination</dt>
<dd>This groups allows selecting if this route applies for just one destination pattern, a group or faxes.</dd>
<dt>Route type</dt>
<dd>There are three kind of routes: static, LCR and block. In <em>static</em>, only one carrier is selected. In <em>LCR</em>, multiple carriers
may be selected. In <em>block</em>, no carrier is selected as call will be dropped.</dd>
<dt>Priority</dt>
<dd>If a call matches several routes, it will be placed using the outgoing
route with lower priority, as long as it is available.</dd>
<dt>Weight</dt>
<dd>If a call matches several routes with equal priority, weight will determine
the proportion of calls that will use one route or another.</dd>
<dt>Stopper</dt>
<dd>If a call matches a route marked as stopper, matching routes with higher priority
will be ignored. <strong>Matching routes with SAME priority route WILL apply</strong>.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="section" id="routing-selection-logic">
<h2>Routing selection logic</h2>
<p>When a client A calls to a destination B:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li><em>Apply to all clients</em> routes with B destination pattern are selected.</li>
<li><em>Apply to all clients</em> routes with group containing B destination are selected.</li>
<li><em>Client A specific routes</em> routes with B destination pattern are selected.</li>
<li><em>Client A specific routes</em> routes with group containing B destination are selected.</li>
<li>All these routes are ordered using <em>Priority</em> (lower priority apply first).</li>
<li>If any Blocking route has been selected, call is dropped.</li>
<li>The route with lower priority (e.g. prio Y) marked as <em>Stopper</em> (if any), will cause discarding routes with priority greater than Y+1.</li>
<li>Call will be routed using routes that remain after this process, priority will determine failover process, with will determine load balance (see below).</li>
</ol>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p>As described above <strong>All clients routes apply to all clients</strong>, even if they have specific matching routes:</p>
<ul class="last simple">
<li>Use priority and stopper routes to achieve <em>Clients with specific routes don&#8217;t use All clients routes</em> routing strategy.</li>
<li>If you want to achieve <em>Fallback for all clients</em> routing strategy, make sure you use high priority values.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Fax specific routes will apply first for both faxes sent via virtual faxing (see <a class="reference internal" href="../../client/vpbx/faxes.xhtml#faxes"><span class="std std-ref">Faxes</span></a>) or T.38 capable devices.
If no fax specific route is found for a given fax, routes will apply as for a normal voice call to that destination.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="load-balancing">
<h3>Load balancing</h3>
<p>Priority and weight, are key parameters to achieve two interesting features too: <strong>load-balancing</strong> and <strong>failover-routes</strong>.</p>
<p><em>Load-balancing</em> lets us distribute calls matching the same pattern using
several valid outgoing routes.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Example 1<ul>
<li>Route A: priority 1, weight 1</li>
<li>Route B: priority 1, weight 1</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Call matching these routes will use route A for %50 of the calls and route B for
%50 of the calls.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Example 2<ul>
<li>Route A: priority 1, weight 1</li>
<li>Route B: priority 1, weight 2</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Call matching these routes will use route A for %33 of the calls and route B for
%66 of the calls.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="failover-routes">
<h3>Failover routes</h3>
<p>Failover route lets us use another route whenever the main route fails.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Example<ul>
<li>Route A: priority 1, weight 1</li>
<li>Route B: priority 2, weight 1</li>
</ul>
</li>
</ul>
<p>All calls matching these routes will try to use route A. In case the call fails,
the call will be placed using route B.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Although given examples use two routes, more routes can be chained and
failover and load-balancing strategies can be combined.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="lcr-routes">
<h2>LCR routes</h2>
<p>LCR (<em>Least Cost Routing</em>) routes may select more than one carrier. Whenever a LCR route is used, the platform will compute the call cost for that
given destination (for a 5 minutes duration) and will order them in increasing order.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">Carriers that cannot compute cost for a given destination are silently ignored (they are not used).</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="lcr-and-static-routes-combined">
<h3>LCR and static routes combined</h3>
<p>Carrier election process can combine static and LCR routes:</p>
<ol class="arabic simple">
<li>Static routes result in one carrier with the priority and the weight of the route.</li>
<li>LCR routes result in <em>n</em> carriers, ordered by call cost, all of them with the priority and the weight of the route.</li>
<li>Carriers are ordered using priority (ascending order).</li>
<li>Carrier&#8217;s weight is used for load-balancing between carriers with same priority.</li>
</ol>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="blocking-routes">
<h2>Blocking routes</h2>
<p>Blocking routes are <em>Stopper</em> routes as whenever they apply, call is dropped and no further route is evaluated.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Using these routes, it is easy to make a group with unwanted call prefixes and reject all calls to those
destinations for every client (or for one particular client).</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>