<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Hunt groups</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="queues.xhtml" title="Queues"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="ivrs.xhtml" title="Interactive Voice Responses (IVRs)"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Clientes vPBX</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Routing endpoints</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="hunt-groups">
<span id="huntgroups"></span><h1>Hunt groups</h1>
<p>The hunt groups allows configuring more complex <em>ringing</em> process that the
traditional <strong>call to a user</strong>.</p>
<p>These are the fields shown for new hunt groups:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Used to reference this hunt group</dd>
<dt id="term-description">Description</dt>
<dd>Additional information</dd>
<dt id="term-strategy">Strategy</dt>
<dd>Describes how will the calls be delivered. See details in glossary below.</dd>
<dt id="term-ring-all-timeout">Ring all timeout</dt>
<dd>For <em>Ringall</em> strategy, defines for how long will the members be called.</dd>
<dt id="term-prevent-missed-calls">Prevent missed calls</dt>
<dd>When &#8216;Yes&#8217;, calls will never generate a missed call. When &#8216;No&#8217;, missed calls will be prevented only for RingAll
hunt groups if someone answers.</dd>
<dt id="term-allow-call-forwards">Allow Call Forwards</dt>
<dd>When &#8216;No&#8217;, user&#8217;s call forward settings (including DND and boss/assistant) and 3XX responses will be ignored. Otherwise, they will be followed.</dd>
<dt id="term-no-answer-configuration">No answer configuration</dt>
<dd>Policy when hunt group members do not answer the call after defined timeouts.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p>When configuring a hunt group, you can prevent missed calls on called members with <strong>Prevent missed calls</strong> setting:</p>
<ul class="last simple">
<li><strong>Yes</strong>: calls generated by the hunt group will never generate missed calls on called members.</li>
<li><strong>No</strong>: The behaviour of this setting depends on the hunt group type:</li>
<li><strong>RingAll</strong>: calls generated by the hunt group will generate missed calls on called members only if none of them answers the call.</li>
<li><strong>Remaining types</strong>: calls generated by the hunt group will generate missed calls on every called member that does not answer the call.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p>Enabling <strong>Allow Call Forwards</strong> may cause undesired behaviours:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Member not being called as has DND enabled.</li>
<li>Member marked as boss not being called (assistant will be called instead).</li>
<li>Huntgroup&#8217;s <em>No answer configuration</em> never applying (e.g. no answer timeout on called user that applies sooner than Ringall timeout).</li>
<li>Huntgroup&#8217;s members not being called (e.g. sequential huntgroup, first member forwards call to its cell phone).</li>
</ul>
<p class="last"><strong>Use this feature wisely</strong>.</p>
</div>
<p>There are 4 strategies available:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-ringall">Ringall</dt>
<dd>The call will make all the terminals of the group during a predefined
time.</dd>
<dt id="term-linear">Linear</dt>
<dd>The call will <em>jump</em> from one user to another in a predefined order
ringing during the configured time. If the call is not answered by any
user of the group, it will be hung up (or will trigger the no answer logic).</dd>
<dt id="term-round-robin">Round robin</dt>
<dd>The call will <em>jump</em> from one user to another in a predefined order
ringing during the configured time. If the call is not answered by any
user of the group, the call will <em>jump</em> again to the first member of the
group and keep looping.</dd>
<dt id="term-random">Random</dt>
<dd>The call will <em>jump</em> from one user to another in a random order,
ringing during the configured time.  If the call is not answered by any
user of the group, it will be hung up (or will trigger the no answer logic).</dd>
</dl>
<div class="section" id="adding-members-to-hunt-group">
<h2>Adding members to hunt group</h2>
<p><strong>List of members</strong> subsection allows adding users or external numbers to each group:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>For <em>RingAll hunt groups</em>, members will be added without any additional parameters.</li>
<li>For remaining groups, priority and timeout will be specified for each member. Priority determines the order, timeout ring
duration for each member.</li>
</ul>
<p>Section <a class="reference internal" href="../users.xhtml#users"><span class="std std-ref">Users</span></a> also allows adding member to existing hunt groups using <strong>List of hunt groups</strong> option.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>