<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Brand Configuration</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="client_portal.xhtml" title="Client Configuration"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="god_portal.xhtml" title="Global Configuration"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Making internal calls</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="brand-configuration">
<h1>Brand Configuration</h1>
<p>We need that the default DemoBrand has a client with at least 2 users. In
order to achieve this we will require a little configuration in this section.</p>
<p>In fact, if we check <strong>Virtual PBXs</strong> in the brand menu, we&#8217;ll discover that there
is already an existing <em>DemoCompany</em> that we can use to fulfill our desired
goal :)</p>
<p>Only a thing is required to configure for this client, pressing <strong>Edit client</strong> option.</p>
<div class="section" id="client-sip-domain">
<span id="domain-per-client"></span><h2>Client SIP Domain</h2>
<p>As mentioned in the previous section, is <strong>required</strong> that each of the vPBX clients
has a public domain that resolves to the configured IP address for
<a class="reference internal" href="../../administration_portal/platform/infrastructure/proxy_users.xhtml#proxyusers"><span class="std std-ref">Proxy Users</span></a>.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">DNS register can be type A (supported by all the hardphones/softphones
) or even NAPTR+SRV.</p>
</div>
<p>Once the domain has been configured (by means that are out of scope of this
document), it will be enough to write it in our client configuration <strong>SIP Domain</strong> field.</p>
<p>Once the client has been saved, the domain will be also displayed in the list in the column <strong>SIP domain</strong>.</p>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Attention</p>
<p class="last">It&#8217;s important to understand this block. <a class="reference internal" href="#dnshack"><span class="std std-ref">Unless we&#8217;ve a
single client registered</span></a>, without a DNS domain pointing to our
users proxy IP address, everything will fail.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition danger">
<p class="first admonition-title">Danger</p>
<p class="last">Have we repeated enough that without a properly configured DNS
pointing to the Users proxy IP address nothing will work?</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="i-have-no-time-for-a-dns-registry">
<span id="dnshack"></span><h3>I have no time for a DNS registry</h3>
<p>Everything we have said is true: as we create new brands and brands create new
clients, each of them will need a DNS registry.</p>
<p>But the first client of the platform is quite special and can take over the IP
address of the proxy to use it as a domain.</p>
<p>Although it is not a domain, but being used like it was, it will be displayed
in <a class="reference internal" href="../../administration_portal/platform/sip_domains.xhtml#sip-domains"><span class="std std-ref">SIP domains</span></a> section.</p>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">It’s important to understand the this trick is only valid for the first
client of the platform ;)</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="emulate-demo-client">
<span id="emulate-client"></span><h2>Emulate Demo client</h2>
<p>The client emulation process is the same as the brand emulation, with the
difference that it filters the block ‘Client Configuration’ instead of
‘Brand Configuration’.</p>
<p>Once the client has been emulated, the top right corner of the portal will
show that we are in the right path :)</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>