<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Retail</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="wholesale.xhtml" title="Wholesale"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="residential.xhtml" title="Residential"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Clients</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="retail">
<span id="retail-clients"></span><h1>Retail</h1>
<p>Retail clients are even a more lightweight client type than <em>Residential clients</em>.</p>
<p>They just provide a SIP trunking service that include these features:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Configure one or more retail accounts (SIP devices).</li>
<li>Setup one or more DDIs.</li>
<li><strong>Place external calls</strong> showing one of those DDIs.</li>
<li><strong>Receive external calls</strong> to their DDIs.</li>
<li>Record calls.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">No users, no extensions, no internal calls, no hunt groups, no IVRs, no voicemail...
just <strong>incoming and outgoing external calls</strong>.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">Retail clients and their accounts <strong>MUST use Brand&#8217;s SIP domain in their SIP messages</strong>.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="differences-between-retail-and-residential-clients">
<h2>Differences between retail and residential clients</h2>
<p>There is an important key difference between these two clients: <strong>retail client calls do not traverse
any application server</strong>.</p>
<p>As a result:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>No virtual faxing service for retail clients.</li>
<li>No voicemail service for retail clients.</li>
</ul>
<p>But they also have benefits that make them ideal for some situations:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>No application server traverse, much less load for the platform.</li>
<li>Call transcoding as a feature.</li>
<li>Routing tags for different call routing for same destinations.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">Residential devices are force to talk the codec selected in their configuration (just one).
Retail clients, on the other hand, can talk in the codecs they offer in their SDP and in the
codecs selected in IvozProvider: IvozProvider will make transcoding when necessary.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">Use retail client type unless you need any of the services provided by application servers (fax or voicemails).</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="adding-editing-retail-clients">
<h2>Adding/Editing retail clients</h2>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">Some fields described below may not be visible depending on enabled features.</p>
</div>
<p>These are the fields shown when <strong>adding</strong> a new retail client:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-billing-method">Billing method</dt>
<dd>To choose among postpaid, prepaid and pseudo-prepaid.</dd>
<dt id="term-country-code">Country code</dt>
<dd>Default country code for DDIs.</dd>
<dt id="term-currency">Currency</dt>
<dd>Chosen currency will be used in price calculation, invoices, balance movements and
remaining money operations of this client.</dd>
<dt id="term-default-timezone">Default timezone</dt>
<dd>Used for showing call registries dates.</dd>
<dt id="term-email">Email</dt>
<dd>A notification email will be sent to given address when configured max daily usage is reached. Leave empty to
avoid notification.</dd>
<dt id="term-filter-by-ip-address">Filter by IP address</dt>
<dd>If set, the platform will only allow calls coming from allowed IP/ranges or countries.</dd>
<dt id="term-geoip-allowed-countries">GeoIP allowed countries</dt>
<dd>If <em>Filter by IP address</em> is enabled, traffic from selected countries will be allowed.</dd>
<dt id="term-language">Language</dt>
<dd>Used to choose the language of played locutions.</dd>
<dt id="term-max-calls">Max calls</dt>
<dd>Limits both incoming and outgoing external calls (0 for unlimited).</dd>
<dt id="term-max-daily-usage">Max daily usage</dt>
<dd>Limits external outbound calls when this limit is reached within a day. At midnight counters are reset and
accounts are re-enabled.</dd>
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Used to reference this particular client.</dd>
<dt id="term-numeric-transformation">Numeric transformation</dt>
<dd>Describes the way the client will &#8220;talk&#8221; and the way the client wants to be &#8220;talked&#8221;.</dd>
</dl>
<p>When <strong>editing</strong> a client, these additional fields can be configured:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-allow-client-to-remove-recordings">Allow Client to remove recordings</dt>
<dd>Shown only if <em>Recording</em> feature is enabled for client, shows/hides recording
removal button on client <em>Call Recordings</em> section.</dd>
<dt id="term-audio-transcoding">Audio transcoding</dt>
<dd>This field allows enabling codecs for this specific client. This codecs will be added to
the ones offered by the client in its SDP.</dd>
<dt id="term-invoice-data">Invoice data</dt>
<dd>All the fields in this group will be included in invoices generated for this client. This section also allows
showing/hiding billing details to client&#8217;s portal, such as Invoices, Rating Profiles and Price of external calls.</dd>
<dt id="term-outgoing-ddi">Outgoing DDI</dt>
<dd>Fallback DDI for external outgoing calls (can be overridden at residential device level).</dd>
<dt id="term-routing-tags">Routing tags</dt>
<dd>This field allows enabling routing tags for this specific client. Call preceded with this
routing tags will be rated and routed differently.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">Selecting codecs in <strong>Audio transcoding</strong> may lead to uneeded transcoding. Selecting ALL codecs is
always a horrible idea. Do not select any codec unless this client does not support an specific codec
that is compulsory for a needed destination/carrier.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p>Apart from these fields, main operator (<em>aka</em> God) will also see a <strong>Platform data</strong> group that allows:</p>
<ul class="last simple">
<li>Choosing an specific media relay set for the client.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">For outgoing calls, platform will use the CLID provided by the client as long as it is considered valid, otherwise fallback DDI
will be used. The platform will consider as valid any CLID that matches one of the client&#8217;s DDIs.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="additional-subsections">
<h2>Additional subsections</h2>
<p>Each entry in this table has these additional options:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>List of authorized sources</strong>: if <em>Filter by IP address</em> is enabled, this subsection allows adding addresses or network ranges.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">No outgoing call will be allowed if <em>Filter by IP address</em> is enabled and the corresponding list is empty.</p>
</div>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>List of client admins</strong>: this subsection allows managing portal credentials for this specific client. Read <a class="reference internal" href="../../../api_rest/acls.xhtml#acls"><span class="std std-ref">ACLs</span></a>
for further explanation about restricted client administrators.</li>
<li><strong>List of Rating profiles</strong>: this subsection allows managing the rating profiles that will be used to bill its outgoing calls.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">No outgoing call will be allowed for this client unless an active rating profiles that can
bill the specific call.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>