<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Virtual PBX</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="residential.xhtml" title="Residential"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Clients"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Clients</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="virtual-pbx">
<h1>Virtual PBX</h1>
<p>Virtual PBX clients are designed to provide service to clients with multiple terminals
that require feature-full call flows.</p>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">Some fields described below may not be visible depending on enabled features.</p>
</div>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Sets the name for this client.</dd>
<dt id="term-sip-domain">SIP domain</dt>
<dd>DNS for this client. See <a class="reference internal" href="../../../getting_started/internal_calls/brand_portal.xhtml#client-sip-domain"><span class="std std-ref">Client SIP Domain</span></a> section.</dd>
<dt id="term-features">Features</dt>
<dd>Allow configuration of available features for this client.
Related sections are hidden consequently and the client cannot use them.</dd>
<dt id="term-billing-method">Billing method</dt>
<dd>When billing feature is enabled determines when calls will be priced. See <a class="reference internal" href="../billing/index.xhtml#billing"><span class="std std-ref">Billing</span></a> section.</dd>
<dt id="term-geographic-configuration">Geographic Configuration</dt>
<dd>General client configuration for language and timezones. Most of the settings in the section can be
configured per user if required.</dd>
<dt id="term-currency">Currency</dt>
<dd>Chosen currency will be used in price calculation, invoices, balance movements and
remaining money operations of this client.</dd>
<dt id="term-max-calls">Max calls</dt>
<dd>Limits both incoming and outgoing external calls (0 for unlimited).</dd>
<dt id="term-filter-by-ip-address">Filter by IP address</dt>
<dd>If set, the platform will only allow calls coming from allowed IP/ranges or countries.</dd>
<dt id="term-geoip-allowed-countries">GeoIP allowed countries</dt>
<dd>If <em>Filter by IP address</em> is enabled, traffic from selected countries will be allowed.</dd>
<dt id="term-max-daily-usage">Max daily usage</dt>
<dd>Limits external outbound calls when this limit is reached within a day. At midnight counters are reset and
accounts are re-enabled.</dd>
<dt id="term-email">Email</dt>
<dd>A notification email will be sent to given address when configured max daily usage is reached. Leave empty to
avoid notification.</dd>
<dt id="term-invoice-data">Invoice data</dt>
<dd>Data included in invoices created by this brand. This section also allows showing/hiding billing details to
client&#8217;s portal, such as Invoices, Rating Profiles and Price of external calls.</dd>
<dt id="term-notifications">Notifications</dt>
<dd>Configure the email <a class="reference internal" href="../settings/notification_templates.xhtml#notification-templates"><span class="std std-ref">Notification Templates</span></a> to use for this client.</dd>
<dt id="term-outgoing-ddi">Outgoing DDI</dt>
<dd>Selects a DDI for outgoing calls of this client, if it is no overridden in
a lower level.</dd>
<dt id="term-media-relay-set">Media relay set</dt>
<dd>As mentioned above, media-relay can be grouped in sets to reserve capacities
or on a geographical purpose. This section lets you assign them to clients.</dd>
<dt id="term-distribute-method">Distribute Method</dt>
<dd>&#8216;Hash based&#8217; distributes calls hashing a parameter that is unique per
client, &#8216;Round robin&#8217; distributes calls equally between AS-es and
&#8216;static&#8217; is used for debugging purposes.</dd>
<dt id="term-application-server">Application Server</dt>
<dd>If &#8216;static&#8217; <em>distribute method</em> is used, select an application server here.</dd>
<dt id="term-on-demand-call-recording">On-demand call recording</dt>
<dd>Shown only if <em>Recording</em> feature is enabled for client, allows enabling and
disabling on-demand call recording. If enabled, you can choose how to invoke
and service code if needed.</dd>
<dt id="term-allow-client-to-remove-recordings">Allow Client to remove recordings</dt>
<dd>Shown only if <em>Recording</em> feature is enabled for client, shows/hides recording
removal button on client <em>Call Recordings</em> section.</dd>
</dl>
<p>Most of the features are self-explanatory, but <strong>voice notification</strong> deserves
an explanation: if you enable them, when a call fails, the user will listen a
locution explaining what occurred (&#8220;you have no permissions to place this call&#8221;,
&#8220;the call cannot be billed&#8221;, etc.)</p>
<p>Both <strong>Distribute method</strong> and <strong>Application Server</strong> are only visible for God
Administrator.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">&#8216;Round-robin&#8217; distribute method is reserved for huge clients
whose calls cannot be handled in a single AS. <strong>Use &#8216;Hash based&#8217;
for remaining ones</strong>, as &#8216;Round-robin&#8217; imposes some limitations
to client features (no queues, no conferences).</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="additional-subsections">
<h2>Additional subsections</h2>
<p>Each entry in this table has these additional options:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>List of authorized sources</strong>: if <em>Filter by IP address</em> is enabled, this subsection allows adding addresses or network ranges.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">No outgoing call will be allowed if <em>Filter by IP address</em> is enabled and the corresponding list is empty.</p>
</div>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>List of client admins</strong>: this subsection allows managing portal credentials for this specific client. Read <a class="reference internal" href="../../../api_rest/acls.xhtml#acls"><span class="std std-ref">ACLs</span></a>
for further explanation about restricted client administrators.</li>
<li><strong>List of Rating profiles</strong>: this subsection allows managing the rating profiles that will be used to bill its outgoing calls.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">No outgoing call will be allowed for this client unless an active rating profiles that can
bill the specific call.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>