<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Wholesale</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../providers/index.xhtml" title="Providers"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="retail.xhtml" title="Retail"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Clients</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="wholesale">
<span id="wholesale-clients"></span><h1>Wholesale</h1>
<p>Wholesale clients are the simplest client type in IvozProvider.</p>
<p>It allows trunking services with Carriers without any application server features,
focusing on concurrency and quality rather on having lots of services.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Just make outgoing calls.</li>
<li>IP authentication only (no register, no SIP auth).</li>
<li>Calls go directly from users to trunks, without any application server involved.</li>
<li>Support for routing tags (client can choose the outgoing route to use)</li>
<li>Support for audio transcoding.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">No users, no extensions, no internal calls, no DDIs, no voicemail, no call forwards...
just <strong>outgoing external calls</strong>.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">Wholesale clients <strong>do not need to use Brand&#8217;s SIP domain in their SIP messages</strong>.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="adding-editing-clients">
<h2>Adding/Editing clients</h2>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">Some fields described below may not be visible depending on enabled features.</p>
</div>
<p>These are the fields shown when <strong>adding</strong> a new wholesale client:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-billing-method">Billing method</dt>
<dd>To choose among postpaid, prepaid and pseudo-prepaid.</dd>
<dt id="term-currency">Currency</dt>
<dd>Chosen currency will be used in price calculation, invoices, balance movements and
remaining money operations of this client.</dd>
<dt id="term-default-timezone">Default timezone</dt>
<dd>Used for showing call registries dates.</dd>
<dt id="term-email">Email</dt>
<dd>A notification email will be sent to given address when configured max daily usage is reached. Leave empty to
avoid notification.</dd>
<dt id="term-language">Language</dt>
<dd>Used to choose the language of played locutions.</dd>
<dt id="term-max-calls">Max calls</dt>
<dd>Limits outgoing external calls (0 for unlimited).</dd>
<dt id="term-max-daily-usage">Max daily usage</dt>
<dd>Limits external outbound calls when this limit is reached within a day. At midnight counters are reset and
accounts are re-enabled.</dd>
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Used to reference this particular client.</dd>
<dt id="term-numeric-transformation">Numeric transformation</dt>
<dd>Describes the way the client will &#8220;talk&#8221; and the way the client wants to be &#8220;talked&#8221;.</dd>
</dl>
<p>When <strong>editing</strong> a client, these additional fields can be configured:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-audio-transcoding">Audio transcoding</dt>
<dd>This field allows enabling codecs for this specific client. This codecs will be added to
the ones offered by the client in its SDP.</dd>
<dt id="term-invoice-data">Invoice data</dt>
<dd>All the fields in this group will be included in invoices generated for this client. This section also allows
showing/hiding billing details to client&#8217;s portal, such as Invoices, Rating Profiles and Price of external calls.</dd>
<dt id="term-routing-tags">Routing tags</dt>
<dd>This field allows enabling routing tags for this specific client. Call preceded with this
routing tags will be rated and routed differently.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">Selecting codecs in <strong>Audio transcoding</strong> may lead to uneeded transcoding. Selecting ALL codecs is
always a horrible idea. Do not select any codec unless this client does not support an specific codec
that is compulsory for a needed destination/carrier.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p>Apart from these fields, main operator (<em>aka</em> God) will also see a <strong>Platform data</strong> group that allows:</p>
<ul class="last simple">
<li>Choosing an specific media relay set for the client.</li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="additional-subsections">
<h2>Additional subsections</h2>
<p>Each entry in this table has these additional options:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>List of authorized sources</strong>: client identification will be made looking up the source IP address in this table.</li>
<li><strong>List of client admins</strong>: this subsection allows managing portal credentials for this specific client. Read <a class="reference internal" href="../../../api_rest/acls.xhtml#acls"><span class="std std-ref">ACLs</span></a>
for further explanation about restricted client administrators.</li>
<li><strong>List of rating profiles</strong>: this subsection allows managing the rating profiles that will be used to bill its outgoing calls.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">No outgoing call will be allowed for this client unless an active rating profiles that can
bill the specific call.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>