<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>External calls</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="call_csv_schedulers.xhtml" title="Call CSV schedulers"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="active_calls.xhtml" title="Active calls"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Wholesale clients</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Calls</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="external-calls">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>External calls</h1>
<p><strong>External calls</strong> section lists <strong>both inbound and outbound external calls</strong>.</p>
<p>This section is shown at different levels:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Main level (god level)</li>
<li>Brand level (filtered for emulated/logged brand).</li>
<li>Client level (filtered for emulated/logged client).</li>
</ul>
<p>Each entry shows this information:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-start-time">Start time</dt>
<dd>Date and time of the call establishment.</dd>
<dt id="term-brand">Brand</dt>
<dd>Only visible for <em>god</em>, shows the brand of each call.</dd>
<dt id="term-client">Client</dt>
<dd>Visible for <em>god</em> and <em>brand operator</em>, shows the client of each call.</dd>
<dt id="term-caller">Caller</dt>
<dd>DDI presented for the outgoing call.</dd>
<dt id="term-callee">Callee</dt>
<dd>External number dialed.</dd>
<dt id="term-duration">Duration</dt>
<dd>Shows how long the call lasted.</dd>
<dt id="term-price">Price</dt>
<dd>The money amount for the client. Visible for <em>god</em> and <em>brand operator</em> and <em>Client administrator</em> if
<em>Display billing details to client</em> is enabled.</dd>
<dt id="term-cost">Cost</dt>
<dd>Visible for <em>god</em> and <em>brand operator</em>, the money amount for the brand (the money that the carrier will bill for the call).</dd>
<dt id="term-rating-plan">Rating Plan</dt>
<dd>Rating plan used to set price for the call. Visible for <em>god</em> and <em>brand operator</em> and <em>Client administrator</em> if
<em>Display billing details to client</em> is enabled.</dd>
<dt id="term-destination">Destination</dt>
<dd>Destination that matched the call for billing. Visible for <em>god</em> and <em>brand operator</em> and <em>Client administrator</em> if
<em>Display billing details to client</em> is enabled.</dd>
<dt id="term-carrier">Carrier</dt>
<dd>Visible for <em>god</em> and <em>brand operator</em>, shows which <a class="reference internal" href="../../../brand/providers/carriers.xhtml#carriers"><span class="std std-ref">Carrier</span></a> was used for each outbound call.</dd>
<dt id="term-ddi-provider">DDI Provider</dt>
<dd>Visible for <em>god</em> and <em>brand operator</em>, shows which <a class="reference internal" href="../../../brand/providers/ddi_providers.xhtml#ddi-providers"><span class="std std-ref">DDI Provider</span></a> was used for each inbound call.</dd>
<dt id="term-invoice">Invoice</dt>
<dd>Visible for <em>god</em> and <em>brand operator</em>, shows if a call is already included in any <a class="reference internal" href="../../../brand/invoicing/invoices.xhtml#invoices"><span class="std std-ref">Invoice</span></a>.</dd>
<dt id="term-call-id">Call ID</dt>
<dd>Shows the call ID of the call for troubleshooting and CSV export.</dd>
<dt id="term-endpoint-type">Endpoint Type</dt>
<dd>Possible values: RetailAccount, ResidentialDevice, User, Fax, Friend.</dd>
<dt id="term-endpoint-id">Endpoint Id</dt>
<dd>Internal ID of specific endpoint (only when <em>endpointType</em> is non-empty).</dd>
<dt id="term-endpoint-name">Endpoint Name</dt>
<dd>User extension, friend name, fax name, retail account name or residential device name (only when <em>endpointId</em> is non-empty).</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">An asynchronous process parses each external call and adds it to this list a few minutes after call hangup. Billing related fields, such as cost and price, will be empty for external incoming calls.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="call-rerating">
<h2>Call rerating</h2>
<p>At <strong>brand level</strong>, there is an additional available operation for outbound calls: <strong>Rerate call</strong>. This option allows calling rating engine again for a call or a bunch of calls.</p>
<p>Notes about this rerating process:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>If a call is in an invoice, it cannot be rerated. Invoice must be deleted first.</li>
<li>Call will be rerated with the <em>Start time</em> of the call (no with current active rating plans, but with active rating plans
on the moment of the call).</li>
<li>Both <em>Price</em> and <em>Cost</em> will be recalculated. This may imply updating <em>rating plan</em> and <em>destination</em> too.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">When a call is rerated, cost and price are emptied until the next iteration of the asynchronous task.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>