<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Currencies</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="default_notification_templates.xhtml" title="Default Notification Templates"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="services.xhtml" title="Services"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Platform Configuration</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="currencies">
<h1>Currencies</h1>
<p>This section allows adding as many currencies as wanted. It is a multilanguage field with a symbol that will be used
in invoices, balance movements, etc.</p>
<p>These IvozProvider elements have an assigned currency:</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-brand">Brand</dt>
<dd>Used as default currency for all underlying items that have currency.</dd>
<dt id="term-client">Client</dt>
<dd>Chosen currency will be used in price calculation, invoices, invoice&#8217;s fixed costs, balance movements and
remaining money operations of this client.</dd>
<dt id="term-carrier">Carrier</dt>
<dd>Chosen currency will be used in cost calculation, balance movements and
remaining money operations of this carrier.</dd>
<dt id="term-destination-rate">Destination rate</dt>
<dd>All rates within a destination rate will assume this currency.</dd>
<dt id="term-rating-plan">Rating plan</dt>
<dd>All destination rates grouped in a rating plan <strong>must</strong> use this currency.</dd>
</dl>
<p>It is important to take into account notes below before using this feature:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Rating plans <strong>must</strong> only group destination rates using its currency.</li>
<li>Clients and carriers <strong>must</strong> only use rating plans using its currency.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Nota</p>
<p class="last">Some backend checks avoid some of previous misconfigurations, but not all of them: <strong>use this feature carefully</strong>.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition important">
<p class="first admonition-title">Importante</p>
<p class="last"><strong>There is no currency conversion involved</strong>: call cost will be calculated in carrier&#8217;s currency, call price
will be calculated in client&#8217;s currency.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition caution">
<p class="first admonition-title">Prudencia</p>
<p class="last">LCR routes involving carriers with different currencies are not supported.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>