<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Terminal provisioning</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../userportal/index.xhtml" title="User Portal"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../billing_and_invoices/invoices.xhtml" title="Invoice generation"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Oasis documentation</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="terminal-provisioning">
<span id="provisioning"></span><h1>Terminal provisioning</h1>
<div class="section" id="overview">
<h2>Overview</h2>
<p>IvozProvider supports provisioning of terminals via HTTP/HTTPS that fulfill the
following requirements:</p>
<ul>
<li><p class="first">Assuming a just unboxed terminal, just plugged and connected to the network:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Ask IP address via DHCP.</li>
<li>DCHP has enabled the option 66 that points to the platform portal</li>
<li>The first requested provisioning file is a static file (different for each
model) prefixed with the previous step URL.</li>
<li>The served file can redefine the URL for further requests</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
</ul>
<p>Any terminal model that can adapt to this provisioning way can be added into
the section <strong>Platform Configuration &gt; Terminal manufacturers</strong>.</p>
<p class="rubric">Example Cisco SPA504G</p>
<ul>
<li><p class="first">Cisco SPA504G is turned on and requests an IP address to DHCP</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">Receives “<a class="reference external" href="http://provision.example.com/provision">http://provision.example.com/provision</a>” as DHCP option 66</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">Request HTTP configuration from <a class="reference external" href="http://provision.example.com/provision/spa504g.cfg">http://provision.example.com/provision/spa504g.cfg</a></p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">All 504G request the same file (spa504.cfg), prefixed with the given URL</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">This file only contain basic configuration settings for the model and the URL
for the next request (p.e. <a class="reference external" href="https://provision.example.com/provision/$MAC.cfg">https://provision.example.com/provision/$MAC.cfg</a>)</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">This way, each terminal (MAC should be unique) request a specific file
(and different) after the generic one has been served.</p>
</li>
<li><p class="first">This file will contain the specific configuration for the terminal:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>User</li>
<li>Password</li>
<li>SIP Domain</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">IvozProvider provisioning system, right now, only has one goal:
provide credentials and language settings for the terminals.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="configuration-of-supported-models">
<h2>Configuration of supported models</h2>
<p>IvozProvider uses a template system that allows global operator (God) to
define new models and configure what files will be served.</p>
<p>The help section of <strong>Terminal manufacturers</strong> has examples for some models
that work (in the moment of writting this) with IvozProvider provisioning system.</p>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p class="last">These models will be available after the initial installation, but
you must edit them and load the default configuration before
you can use the provisioning system (option <strong>Restore default template</strong>).</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">UACs firmware changes may cause that given examples stop working. We
will try to keep templates updated, but we can&#8217;t guarantee this point.</p>
</div>
<p>Analyzing the suggested templates you can have a basic idea of the flexibility of
the system to configure any existing terminal model in the market and to adapt
them to eventual changes in given examples.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="getting-technical">
<h2>Getting technical</h2>
<p>Imagine an environment with this configuration:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Provisioning URLs:<ul>
<li>Generic file: <a class="reference external" href="http://PROV_IP/provision">http://PROV_IP/provision</a></li>
<li>Specific file: <a class="reference external" href="https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision</a></li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>TerminalModels.genericUrlPattern: y000000000044.cfg</li>
</ul>
<p>Which requested URLs will be valid?</p>
<p>For generic file, just one: <a class="reference external" href="http://PROV_IP/provision/y000000000044.cfg">http://PROV_IP/provision/y000000000044.cfg</a></p>
<p>For specific file, requests are right as long as this rules are fulfilled:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>All HTTP requests are wrong.</li>
<li>HTTPS requests to 443 are wrong (PROV_PORT must be used).</li>
<li>Subpaths after provisioning URL are ignored, both in request and in
specificUrlPattern.</li>
<li>On specific file request, extension must match as long as extension is used
in specificUrlPattern.</li>
<li>On specific file request, the filename must match exactly once {mac} is replaced.</li>
<li>MAC address is case insensitive and can contain colons or not (&#8216;:&#8217;).</li>
</ul>
<p>Let&#8217;s analyze the examples below to understand this rules better:</p>
<p class="rubric">Example 1 - TerminalModels.specificUrlPattern: {mac}.cfg</p>
<p>Working requests:</p>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/aabbccddeeff.cfg</span>
<span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/aa:bb:cc:dd:ee:ff.cfg</span>
<span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/aabbccdd:ee:ff.cfg</span>
<span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/aabbccddeeff.cfg</span>
<span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/AABBCCDDEEFF.cfg</span>
<span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/subpath1/aabbccddeeff.cfg</span>
<span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/subpath1/subpath2/aabbccddeeff.cfg</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Wrong requests:</p>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/aabbccddeeff.boot</span>
<span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/subpath1/subpath2/aabbccddeeff.boot</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>This example is identical to &#8216;t23/{mac}.cfg&#8217;, as subpaths are ignored.</p>
<p class="rubric">Example 2 - TerminalModels.specificUrlPattern: {mac}</p>
<p>All previous examples are ok, as extension is ignored if no extension is found
in specificUrlPattern.</p>
<p>This example is identical to &#8216;t23/{mac}&#8217;, as subpaths are ignored.</p>
<p class="rubric">Example 3 - TerminalModels.specificUrlPattern: yea-{mac}.cfg</p>
<p>All previous examples are wrong, as no &#8216;yea-&#8216; is found (&#8216;yea&#8217; match is case
sensitive).</p>
<p>Working requests:</p>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/subpath1/yea-aabbccdd:ee:ff.cfg</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Wrong requests:</p>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/subpath1/yea-aabbccdd:ee:ff.boot</span>
<span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/subpath1/YEA-aabbccdd:ee:ff.cfg</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>This example is identical to &#8216;t23/yea-{mac}.cfg&#8217;, as subpaths are ignored.</p>
<p class="rubric">Example 4 - TerminalModels.specificUrlPattern: yea-{mac}</p>
<p>As no extension is given:</p>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/subpath1/yea-aabbccdd:ee:ff.cfg</span>
<span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/subpath1/yea-aabbccdd:ee:ff.boot</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Wrong requests:</p>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">https://PROV_IP:PROV_PORT/provision/subpath1/YEA-aabbccdd:ee:ff.cfg</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>This example is identical to &#8216;t23/yea-{mac}&#8217;, as subpaths are ignored.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2017, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>