<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Debian packages install</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="cd_install.xhtml" title="Automatic ISO CD image"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="requirements.xhtml" title="Minimum requirements"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Initial Installation</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="debian-packages-install">
<h1>Debian packages install</h1>
<p>IvozProvider is designed to be installed and updated using Debian packages.
More exactly, the current release is ready to be installed on
<a class="reference external" href="https://www.debian.org/releases/stretch">Debian Stretch 9</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.debian.org/releases/stretch]</span>.</p>
<p>It&#8217;s recommended to use one of the <a class="reference external" href="https://www.debian.org/releases/stretch/installmanual">official installation guides</a><span class="link-target"> [https://www.debian.org/releases/stretch/installmanual]</span> to install the minimum
base system. The rest of required  dependencies will be installed automatically
with IvozProvider meta packages.</p>
<p>No matter if you are installing a <a class="reference internal" href="install_types.xhtml#standalone-install"><span class="std std-ref">StandAlone Install</span></a> or a
<a class="reference internal" href="install_types.xhtml#distributed-install"><span class="std std-ref">Distributed Install</span></a>, it&#8217;s required to configure Irontec debian
repositories.</p>
<div class="section" id="apt-repository-configuration">
<h2>APT Repository configuration</h2>
<p>Right now, two different repositories are used for the latest IvozProvider
release (called artemis) and it&#8217;s frontend Klear release (called tayler).</p>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">cd /etc/apt/sources.list.d</span>
<span class="go">echo deb http://packages.irontec.com/debian artemis main extra &gt; ivozprovider.list</span>
<span class="go">echo deb http://packages.irontec.com/debian tayler main &gt; klear.list</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<p>Optionally, we can add the repository key to check signed packages:</p>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">wget http://packages.irontec.com/public.key -q -O - | apt-key add -</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="installing-profile-package">
<h2>Installing profile package</h2>
<p>Once the repositories are configured, it will be required to select the proper
metapackage depending on the type of installation.</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><dl class="first docutils">
<dt>For a <a class="reference internal" href="install_types.xhtml#standalone-install"><span class="std std-ref">StandAlone Install</span></a>:</dt>
<dd><ul class="first last">
<li>ivozprovider</li>
</ul>
</dd>
</dl>
</li>
</ul>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">apt-get update</span>
<span class="go">apt-get install ivozprovider</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<ul>
<li><p class="first">For a <a class="reference internal" href="install_types.xhtml#distributed-install"><span class="std std-ref">Distributed Install</span></a>: one of the profile packages depending on the
role the machine will perform.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>ivozprovider-profile-data</li>
<li>ivozprovider-profile-proxy</li>
<li>ivozprovider-profile-portal</li>
<li>ivozprovider-profile-as</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition attention">
<p class="first admonition-title">Attention</p>
<p class="last">Distributed installation require a couple manual configuration based on the
roles that are performing. Take into account that distributed installation process
is not documented yet. You can refer to <a class="reference external" href="https://github.com/irontec/ivozprovider/issues/271">documentation request</a><span class="link-target"> [https://github.com/irontec/ivozprovider/issues/271]</span> for more information.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="finish-the-installation">
<h2>Finish the installation</h2>
<p>Standalone installation have a menu that can be used to configure the basic
services used in IvozProvider. Most of the services are automatically configured
to work in the same machine with the default values.</p>
<p>This menu allows:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Configure IP address(es) for SIP proxies</li>
<li>Default platform language</li>
<li>Administrator MySQL database password</li>
</ul>
<p>It&#8217;s possible to change any of this values anytime by running:</p>
<div class="highlight-console"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span><span class="go">dpkg-reconfigure ivozprovider</span>
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="admonition important">
<p class="first admonition-title">Important</p>
<p class="last">Any of the public IP addresses configured during the
installation will work to access the web portal. Default credentials are
<strong>admin / changeme</strong>.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition important">
<p class="first admonition-title">Important</p>
<p class="last">You must reboot your machine after a package installation in order to start
all required sevices.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>