<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>No rating plan, no call</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="finish.xhtml" title="Outgoing configuration complete!"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="outgoing_ddi.xhtml" title="Outgoing DDI configuration"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Making external calls</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <p>At this point, we are looking forward to make our first outgoing call with our
new IvozProvider, we may have even tried to call with current configuration but...</p>
<div class="section" id="no-rating-plan-no-call">
<span id="noplan-nocall"></span><h1>No rating plan, no call</h1>
<p>Just the way we warned <a class="reference internal" href="../../basic_concepts/operation_roles/index.xhtml#brand-responsibilities"><span class="std std-ref">when we described the duties of the brand operator</span></a>, the brand operator is <strong>responsible for making all the
needed setup so that IvozProvider is able to bill all external calls</strong>.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last"><strong>Billing a call</strong> is the action of <strong>assigning price</strong> to a call that implies
cost.</p>
</div>
<p><strong>IvozProvider checks live that a call can be billed when it is established</strong> to avoid
placing calls that imply cost but won&#8217;t be billed because Brand Operator, due to
a mistake, hasn&#8217;t assigned a price.</p>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">If a call can&#8217;t be billed, IvozProvider won&#8217;t allow its establishment.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="creating-a-rating-plan">
<h2>Creating a rating plan</h2>
<p><strong>Brand Configuration &gt; Billing &gt; Destination</strong> section is empty by default, as opposed to routing patterns section,
that has all the 254 countries of the world. The reason is that one destination rate
will usually imply lots of pattern per country (GSM networks, especial numbers,
mobile numbers, fixed lines, etc.).</p>
<p>In most of the cases, this section data will be imported from CSV provided by your
VoIP provider, but for our test we will create it manually:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Create a <strong>destination</strong> with &#8216;+34&#8217; for Spain.</li>
<li>Create a <strong>destination rate</strong> and insert a price for Spain destination.</li>
<li>Create a <strong>rating plan</strong> that includes that destination rate.</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="assign-rating-plan-to-client">
<h2>Assign rating plan to client</h2>
<p>The last step is <strong>assigning that rating plan</strong> to <em>democompany</em> following the indication
<a class="reference internal" href="../../administration_portal/brand/billing/rating_plans.xhtml#assigning-rating-plans-to-clients"><span class="std std-ref">here</span></a>.</p>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>