<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Carriers</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="ddi_providers.xhtml" title="DDI Providers"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Providers"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - Artemis</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Providers</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="carriers">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Carriers</h1>
<p>Carriers are used for placing external outgoing calls.</p>
<p>This are the fields that define a carrier:</p>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">Some fields described below may not be visible depending on enabled features.</p>
</div>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-name">Name</dt>
<dd>Used to reference this Carrier.</dd>
<dt id="term-description">Description</dt>
<dd>Optional field with any required extra information.</dd>
<dt id="term-numeric-transformation">Numeric Transformation</dt>
<dd>Transformation that will be applied to the origin and destination of the
outgoing numbers that use this Carrier
(see <a class="reference internal" href="../settings/numeric_transformations.xhtml#numeric-transformations"><span class="std std-ref">Numeric transformations</span></a>).</dd>
<dt id="term-externally-rated">Externally rated</dt>
<dd>This setting requires the external tarification module and allows
tarification on special numbers. This module is not standard so don&#8217;t
hesitate in <a class="reference internal" href="../../../basic_concepts/intro/getting_help.xhtml#getting-help"><span class="std std-ref">contact us</span></a> if you are interested.</dd>
<dt id="term-calculate-cost">Calculate cost</dt>
<dd>If set, IvozProvider will calculate the cost of the call using the carrier&#8217;s active rating profile.</dd>
<dt id="term-currency">Currency</dt>
<dd>Chosen currency will be used in cost calculation, balance movements and
remaining money operations of this carrier.</dd>
<dt id="term-local-socket">Local socket</dt>
<dd>Selected address will be used as source address for signalling with this carrier. Brand operator can choose among
addresses assigned by main operator via <a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/brands.xhtml#brands"><span class="std std-ref">Brands</span></a>. Read <a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/infrastructure/proxy_trunks.xhtml#proxy-trunks"><span class="std std-ref">Proxy Trunks</span></a> for further details.</dd>
<dt id="term-media-relay-set">Media relay set</dt>
<dd>Media-relays can be grouped in sets to reserve capacities or on a geographical purpose. Selected set will be used
in calls through this specific carrier. This field in only seen by Global administrator (aka God).</dd>
<dt id="term-status">Status</dt>
<dd>Non-responding carrier servers are inactivated until they respond to OPTIONS ping request. This icon is green if
every carrier server of given carrier is active, red if they are all inactive and yellow if just some of them are inactive.</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">If you want carrier-side media handled by the same mediarelay set than client-side, select &#8220;Client&#8217;s default&#8221;.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="cost-calculation">
<h2>Cost calculation</h2>
<p>If <em>Calculate cost</em> is enabled, <em>Rating plans</em> can be linked to carriers for cost calculation (see
<a class="reference internal" href="../billing/rating_plans.xhtml#assigning-rating-plans-to-carriers"><span class="std std-ref">Assigning rating plans to carriers</span></a>) and a balance is attached to each carrier. Whenever a carrier is used for
placing a call, this balance will be decreased using carrier&#8217;s active rating profile.</p>
<p>Besides:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Carrier balance can be increased/decreased with <em>Balance operations</em>.</li>
<li>These operations are listed in <em>List of Balances movements</em>.</li>
<li><em>Balance notifications</em> can be configured to be notified when balance reaches a given threshold.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition important">
<p class="first admonition-title">Importante</p>
<p class="last">Contrary to clients&#8217; balances, <strong>carriers&#8217; (negative/zero) balances won&#8217;t disable the carrier</strong>.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="carrier-servers">
<h2>Carrier Servers</h2>
<p>A <strong>Carrier Server</strong> is a SIP server associated to an IP Provider. Carrier servers
are used for placing outgoing calls by using <a class="reference internal" href="../routing/outgoing_routings.xhtml#outgoing-routings"><span class="std std-ref">Outgoing Routings</span></a>.</p>
<dl class="glossary docutils">
<dt id="term-sip-proxy">SIP Proxy</dt>
<dd>IP address (or DNS registry) of the Carrier Server. You can also specify
a port if it&#8217;s different from 5060.</dd>
<dt id="term-outbound-proxy">Outbound Proxy</dt>
<dd>Usually this is left empty. It can be filled with the IP address of the
<strong>SIP Proxy</strong> domain (to avoid DNS resolution, but keeping the domain
in the SIP messages). It works like a web proxy: instead of sending the
SIP messages to destination <strong>SIP Proxy</strong>, they will be sent to the
IP:PORT of this field.</dd>
<dt id="term-uri-scheme">URI Scheme</dt>
<dd>Supported schemes are sip and sips. Use &#8216;sip&#8217; in case of doubt.</dd>
<dt id="term-transport">Transport</dt>
<dd>Supported transport protocols. Use &#8216;udp&#8217; in case of doubt.</dd>
<dt id="term-requires-authentication">Requires Authentication</dt>
<dd>Some Carriers validate our platform by IP, others require
each session that we want to establish. For this last case, this section
allows to configure user and password for this authentication.</dd>
<dt id="term-call-origin-header">Call Origin Header</dt>
<dd>Some Providers get origin from SIP From header. Others use the From
header for accounting and need extra headers to identify the origin.
In case of doubt leave <strong>PAI</strong> checked.</dd>
<dt id="term-from-header-customization">From header customization</dt>
<dd>For those providers that show origin in other headers (PAI/RPID), it is
possible that request that From User have the account code being used
and from domain their SIP domain. In case of doubt, leave empty.</dd>
<dt id="term-16">Status</dt>
<dd>Non-responding carrier servers are inactivated until they respond to a OPTIONS ping request. This icon shows
if carrier server is active or inactive (and being pinged via OPTIONS message until gets back).</dd>
</dl>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Truco</p>
<p class="last">There are many fields to establish <em>peering</em> with multiple kind of
carriers, but usually with the name and SIP Proxy will be enough (for
those that validate our platform by IP) and Authentication (for those that
won&#8217;t).</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">In case of defining multiple Carrier Servers for a single
Carrier, IvozProvider will balance and failover using all of them.
Like with Application Servers, it will disable those who doesn&#8217;t respond to
our requests.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="list-of-external-calls">
<h2>List of external calls</h2>
<p>You can see external calls placed through a given carrier using this option. You will see the same fields as in
<a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/external_calls.xhtml#external-calls"><span class="std std-ref">External calls</span></a> but filtered for the chosen carrier.</p>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">It is compulsory to have <strong>a valid brand URL</strong> in order to use <em>Export to CSV</em> feature in this subsection.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>