<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Interactive Voice Responses (IVRs)</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="hunt_groups.xhtml" title="Hunt groups"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Routing endpoints"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider tempest documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >vPBX Clients</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Routing endpoints</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="interactive-voice-responses-ivrs">
<h1>Interactive Voice Responses (IVRs)</h1>
<p>IVRs are the most common way to make <strong>audio menus</strong> where the caller must
choose the destination of the call by <strong>pressing codes</strong> based on the locutions
instructions that will be played.</p>
<div class="section" id="ivrs">
<span id="id1"></span><h2>IVRs</h2>
<p>IVRs support specifying actions for dialed digits, but also they can be also be used
to route any existing client extension.</p>
<p>IVRs have the following fields:</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="basic-configuration">
<h2>Basic configuration</h2>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Descriptive name of the IVR that will be used in other sections.</dd>
<dt>Timeout</dt>
<dd>Time that caller has to enter the digits of the target extension.</dd>
<dt>Max digits</dt>
<dd>Maximum number of digits allowed in this IVR.</dd>
<dt>Welcome locution</dt>
<dd>This locution will be played as soon as the caller enters the IVR.</dd>
<dt>Success locution</dt>
<dd>In case the dialed number matches one of the IVR entries or extension
exists in the client (and allow extensions is enabled), this locution
will be played (usually something like &#8216;Connecting, please wait...&#8217;).</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="dialing-extensions">
<h2>Dialing extensions</h2>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Allow dialing extensions</dt>
<dd>When this setting is enabled, the caller can directly press the extension
that must previously know (or the welcome locution suggests) and the system
will automatically connect with that extension.</dd>
<dt>Excluded Extensions</dt>
<dd>When Allow extensions is enabled, you can exclude some extensions to be
directly dialed adding them to the exclusion list.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="no-input-configuration">
<h2>No input configuration</h2>
<blockquote>
<div><p>If the caller does not input any digit in the timeout value, the
no input process will trigger, playing the configured locution and
redirecting to another number, extension or voicemail.</p>
<dl class="docutils">
<dt>No input locution</dt>
<dd>Locution that will be played.</dd>
<dt>No input target</dt>
<dd>Number, extension or voicemail to redirect to after the locution is played.
Additional fields are required depending on the selected value.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="error-configuration">
<h2>Error configuration</h2>
<blockquote>
<div><p>If the dialed extension does not match any IVR entry, any client extensions
(when allow extensions is enabled), or it matches one of the extensions in the
excluded Extensions list, the error process will trigger, playing the configured
locution and redirecting the call to another number, extension or voicemail.</p>
<dl class="docutils">
<dt>Locution</dt>
<dd>Locution that will be played in case of error.</dd>
<dt>Error target</dt>
<dd>Number, extension or voicemail to redirect to after the locution is played.
Additional fields are required depending on the selected value.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="ivr-entries">
<h2>IVR Entries</h2>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Hint</p>
<p class="last">The most common usage for IVR is combining them with a welcome
locution that says something like &#8216;Press 1 to contact XXX, Press 2 to
contact YYY, ...&#8221;</p>
</div>
<p>The process of each entry of the IVR can be defined in the following button:</p>
<p>In this example, the caller can dial 1, 2 or 3 (the rest will be considered as
an error and will trigger the <strong>Error process</strong>):</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>1: Call to the internal extension 200, created in <a class="reference internal" href="hunt_groups.xhtml#huntgroups"><span class="std std-ref">previous section</span></a> that routes to hunt group <em>Reception</em>.</li>
<li>2: Call to the internal extension 101.</li>
<li>3: Route this call to the external number 676 676 676.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">Each of the IVR entries supports a locution that, if set,
will be played instead of the IVR <strong>success locution</strong>. This way, you can
configure a generic locution (like &#8216;Connecting....&#8217;) or a custom one for
a given entry (like &#8216;Connecting reception department, please wait...&#8217;).</p>
</div>
<p class="rubric">Entries are regular expressions</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="entry-information">
<h2>Entry information</h2>
<p>You can specify IVR entries as Regular Expressions. If entry is just
a numeric value, it will be handled as a sequence of digits, otherwise it
will be handled as a regular expression. This can be handy if you have the
same behaviour for a group of dialed numbers.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Entry</dt>
<dd>Regular expression.</dd>
<dt>Success locution</dt>
<dd>Locution to be played in case of success.</dd>
<dt>Display name</dt>
<dd>This value will be displayed in the called terminals</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="routing-configuration">
<h2>Routing configuration</h2>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Target type</dt>
<dd>Depending on the type chosen, additional parameters may be required.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>