<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Call CSV schedulers</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../../../../user_portal/index.xhtml" title="User Portal"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="external_calls.xhtml" title="External calls"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider halliday documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Wholesale clients</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Calls</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="call-csv-schedulers">
<h1>Call CSV schedulers</h1>
<p>This section allows programming automatic periodical CSV reports to wholesale client administrators.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">This section is almost identical to <a class="reference internal" href="../../../brand/invoicing/invoice_schedulers.xhtml#invoice-schedulers"><span class="std std-ref">Invoice schedulers</span></a> except to the
fields that do not apply to CSVs (Invoice number sequence, Tax rate...)</p>
</div>
<p>When adding a new definition, these fields are shown:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Name of the scheduled Call CSV</dd>
<dt>Email</dt>
<dd>Send generated Call CSV via email. Empty if no automatic mail is wanted.</dd>
<dt>Frequency/Unit</dt>
<dd>Defines the frequency (once a month, every 7 days, etc.) of the programmed task</dd>
<dt>Direction</dt>
<dd>Defines which calls should be included attending to its direction (inbound, outbound, both).</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<p>Once created, some new fields and subsections are accesible:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Next execution</dt>
<dd>Shows next execution date</dd>
<dt>Last execution</dt>
<dd>Shows last execution and its result.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Modifying <em>Next execution</em> value allows forcing specific runs. For example, setting <em>Next execution</em> to
current month&#8217;s first day will create again last month&#8217;s CSV report (for a monthly scheduler).</p>
</div>
<p>Generated CSVs of each scheduler can be accessed in <strong>List of Call CSV reports</strong> subsection.</p>
<div class="section" id="csv-fields">
<h2>CSV fields</h2>
<p>These are the fields of the generated CSV files:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>callid</dt>
<dd>Call-ID of the SIP dialog</dd>
<dt>startTime</dt>
<dd>Time and date of the call establishment</dd>
<dt>duration</dt>
<dd>Call duration in seconds</dd>
<dt>caller</dt>
<dd>Caller number in E.164 format (with &#8216;+&#8217;)</dd>
<dt>callee</dt>
<dd>Callee number in E.164 format (with &#8216;+&#8217;)</dd>
<dt>price</dt>
<dd>Calculated price for the given call (empty if <em>Display billing details to client</em> is disabled)</dd>
<dt>direction</dt>
<dd>Possible values: inbound, outbound.</dd>
<dt>ddiId</dt>
<dd>Empty for wholesale clients</dd>
<dt>endpointType</dt>
<dd>Empty for wholesale clients</dd>
<dt>endpointId</dt>
<dd>Empty for wholesale clients</dd>
<dt>endpointName</dt>
<dd>Empty for wholesale clients</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>