<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="es">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Calendars</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navegación</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../../genindex.xhtml" title="Índice General"
             accesskey="I">índice</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="schedules.xhtml" title="Schedules"
             accesskey="N">siguiente</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="external_call_filters.xhtml" title="External call filters"
             accesskey="P">anterior</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../../index.xhtml">documentación de IvozProvider - halliday</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Clientes vPBX</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-3"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Routing tools</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="calendars">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Calendars</h1>
<p>Calenders are used to define what days are considered as holiday. Like
schedules, multiples calendars can be combined.</p>
<div class="section" id="calendar-holidays">
<h2>Calendar Holidays</h2>
<p>Calendar creation process only requires a name. Once created, we can add what
days will be holidays using the buttons in its row:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Unique name to identify this holiday date</dd>
<dt>Locution</dt>
<dd>Override default External call filter holiday locution</dd>
<dt>Event Date</dt>
<dd>Day of the calendar to be marked as holiday</dd>
<dt>Whole day event</dt>
<dd>Enable this to create an event that lasts all the day</dd>
<dt>Time In/Time out</dt>
<dd>For not whole day events, specify the time interval the event will be active</dd>
<dt>Routing options</dt>
<dd>Override default External call filter holiday routing</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Advertencia</p>
<p class="last">Calendars logic is opposite to Schedulers: If a day is not defined
as holiday in any of the calendars, it will considered a normal day and no
filtering will be applied.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">Holidays without special locutions will apply the external call filter
holiday locution.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition hint">
<p class="first admonition-title">Consejo</p>
<p class="last">Holidays without special routing will apply the external call filter
holiday routing.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="calendar-periods">
<span id="id2"></span><h2>Calendar Periods</h2>
<p>Calendars can also be used to override some time periods with a different schedule.
This can be handy if vPBX has a summer schedule or other types of schedule based events.</p>
<p>Calendar periods can define a custom Scheduler and override External Call filters configurations:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Start Date</dt>
<dd>Since when the schedules will override the filters configuration</dd>
<dt>End Date</dt>
<dd>Last day of the period (included)</dd>
<dt>Schedules</dt>
<dd>Schedules that will be used in the defined period</dd>
<dt>Locution</dt>
<dd>In case of Out of schedule, this locution that will be played. Leave empty to use External
call filter&#8217;s locution.</dd>
<dt>Route options</dt>
<dd>Override default external call filter Out of schedule options</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="difference-between-non-whole-day-event-and-calendar-period">
<h2>Difference between non-whole day event and calendar period</h2>
<p>In order to understand the difference between these two features it is important to know the order of call filter logic:</p>
<p><strong>1. Is current day marked as holiday?</strong></p>
<p>This is where non-whole day event applies, making the answer to the question above possitive during defined period.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Yes: apply holiday logic defined in the calendar event or in External Call Filter.</li>
<li>No: proceed to question 2.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<p><strong>2. Is current time marked as out-of-schedule?</strong></p>
<p>This is where calendar period applies, overriding schedules of External Call Filter with the one defined in calendar
period.</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Yes: apply out-of-schedule logic defined in the calendar period or in External Call Filter.</li>
<li>No: proceed with standard logic.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<p class="rubric">Example</p>
<p>Configuration of a given day:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Non-whole day event: 8:00-15:00</li>
<li>Calendar period: 13:00-17:00</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<p>Cases:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Call at 7:00: out of schedule due to calendar period.</li>
<li>Call at 9:00: holiday logic due to non-whole day event.</li>
<li>Call at 14:00: holiday logic due to non-whole day event.</li>
<li>Call at 16:00: normal logic.</li>
<li>Call at 18:00: out of schedule due to calendar period.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Creado con <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>