<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Residential devices</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="ddis.xhtml" title="DDIs"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="index.xhtml" title="Residential Clients"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider halliday documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Client Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Residential Clients</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="residential-devices">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Residential devices</h1>
<p>Residential Devices are the main routable option in Residential clients.
More or less like <a class="reference internal" href="../vpbx/routing_endpoints/friends/index.xhtml#friends"><span class="std std-ref">Friends</span></a> are to Virtual PBX Clients, devices
contain the required configurable options to provide a SIP connectivity
service with IvozProvider and an external SIP entity.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">Although both <strong>Carriers/DDI Providers</strong> and <strong>Residential Devices</strong> are defined by the
<strong>brand operator</strong>, the former are designed to connect with the public switched telephony network
while the latter connects the system with our clients&#8217; SIP entities.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="types-of-residential-devices">
<h2>Types of residential devices</h2>
<p>There are 2 main types of SIP endpoints that can use residential with IvozProvider:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li><strong>Direct connection endpoint</strong>: IvozProvider must be able to talk SIP directly with
this kind of devices by just forwarding the traffic to the proper port of
the public IP address of the PBX.</li>
<li><strong>Endpoint behind NAT</strong>: Not directly reachable. This kind of endpoint must register at
IvozProvider (just like all the <a class="reference internal" href="../vpbx/terminals.xhtml#terminals"><span class="std std-ref">Terminals</span></a> do).</li>
</ul>
</div>
<div class="section" id="what-kind-of-calls-can-be-routed-through-a-residential-device">
<h2>What kind of calls can be routed through a <em>Residential Device</em>?</h2>
<p>Contrary to Friends, <strong>Residential Devices</strong> have some simplifications and limitations:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Residential Devices only route their assigned DDIs</li>
<li>Residential Devices only place externals calls to Carriers</li>
<li>Residential Devices only receive external calls from DDI Providers</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="residential-devices-configuration">
<h2>Residential Devices Configuration</h2>
<p>These are the configurable settings of <em>Residential devices</em>:</p>
<blockquote>
<div><dl class="docutils">
<dt>Name</dt>
<dd>Name of the <strong>residential device</strong>. This name must be unique in the whole brand so
it&#8217;s recommended to use some kind of sequential identifier. This will also be used
in SIP messages (sent <strong>From User</strong>).</dd>
<dt>Description</dt>
<dd>Optional. Extra information for this <em>residential device</em>.</dd>
<dt>Password</dt>
<dd>When the <em>residential device</em> send requests, IvozProvider will authenticate it using
this password. <strong>Using password IS A MUST in &#8220;Register&#8221; mode</strong>. In &#8220;Direct&#8221; mode,
leaving it blank disables SIP authentication and enables IP source check.</dd>
<dt>Direct connectivity</dt>
<dd>If you choose &#8216;Yes&#8217; here, you&#8217;ll have to fill the protocol, address and
port where this <em>residential device</em> can be contacted.</dd>
<dt>Language</dt>
<dd>Locutions will be played in this language</dd>
<dt>Numeric transformation</dt>
<dd>Numeric transformation set that will be applied when communicating with this device.</dd>
<dt>Fallback Outgoing DDI</dt>
<dd>External calls from this <em>residential device</em> will be presented with this DDI, <strong>unless
the source presented matches a DDI belonging to the residential client</strong>.</dd>
<dt>Allowed codec</dt>
<dd>Like vPBX terminals, <em>residential devices</em> will talk only the selected codec.</dd>
<dt>From domain</dt>
<dd>Request from IvozProvider to this device will include this domain in
the From header.</dd>
<dt>DDI In</dt>
<dd>If set to &#8216;Yes&#8217;, set destination (R-URI and To) to called DDI when calling to this endpoint. If set &#8216;No&#8217;, username
used in Contact header of registration will be used, as specified in SIP RFC (residential device name will be used
for endpoints with direct connectivity). Defaults to &#8216;No&#8217;.</dd>
<dt>Call waiting</dt>
<dd>Limits received calls when already handling this number of calls. Set 0 for unlimited.</dd>
<dt>Enable T.38 passthrough</dt>
<dd>If set to &#8216;yes&#8217;, this SIP endpoint must be a <strong>T.38 capable fax sender/receiver</strong>. IvozProvider
will act as a T.38 gateway, bridging fax-calls of a T.38 capable carrier and a T.38 capable device.</dd>
<dt>RTP Encryption</dt>
<dd>If set to &#8216;yes&#8217;, call won&#8217;t be established unless it&#8217;s possible to encryption its audio. If set to &#8216;no&#8217;,
audio won&#8217;t be encrypted.</dd>
<dt>Multi Contact</dt>
<dd>Same SIP credentials can be configured in multiple SIP devices. In that case, all devices ring
simultaneously when receiving a call. Setting this toggle to &#8216;No&#8217; limits this behaviour so that
only latest registered SIP device rings.</dd>
</dl>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Residential device can be contacted due to calls to several DDIs. <em>DDI In</em> setting allows remote SIP endpoint to
know which number caused each call, setting that number as destination (R-URI and To headers). This way, residential
device can handle calls differently.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="voicemail-settings">
<h2>Voicemail settings</h2>
<p>Every residential device has a voicemail that can be accessed using voicemail service code defined at brand level.</p>
<p>Additionally, voicemails can be configured to send their messages to an email address in <a class="reference internal" href="residential_voicemails.xhtml#residential-voicemails"><span class="std std-ref">Residential Voicemails</span></a>.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="call-forwarding-settings">
<span id="residential-devices-cfw"></span><h2>Call forwarding settings</h2>
<p>Apart from unconditional call forwarding to external number through <a class="reference internal" href="../vpbx/routing_tools/external_call_filters.xhtml#external-call-filters"><span class="std std-ref">External call filters</span></a> applied to DDI,
residential devices may have additional call forwarding settings that allow:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Forwarding to another external number.</li>
<li>Forwarding to voicemail associated to each residential device.</li>
<li>Supported forwarding types: unconditional, no-answer, non-registered, busy.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last"><a class="reference internal" href="../vpbx/routing_tools/external_call_filters.xhtml#external-call-filters"><span class="std std-ref">External call filters</span></a> have precedence over residential devices call forwarding settings.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition tip">
<p class="first admonition-title">Tip</p>
<p class="last">Forwarding to national numbers can be configured using services codes
(further information <a class="reference internal" href="../../brand/settings/generic_services.xhtml#call-forward-services"><span class="std std-ref">here</span></a>).</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="asterisk-as-a-residential-device">
<h2>Asterisk as a residential device</h2>
<p>At the other end of a device can be any kind of SIP entity. This section takes
as example an Asterisk PBX system using SIP channel driver that wants to connect
to IvozProvider.</p>
<div class="section" id="device-register">
<h3>Device register</h3>
<p>If the system can not be directly access, Asterisk will have to register in the
platform (like a terminal will do).</p>
<p>Configuration will be something like this:</p>
<div class="highlight-none"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>register =&gt; residentialDeviceName:residentialDevicePassword@ivozprovider-brand.sip-domain.com
</pre></div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="device-peer">
<h3>Device peer</h3>
<div class="highlight-none"><div class="highlight"><pre><span></span>[residentialDeviceName]
type=peer
host=ivozprovider-brand.sip-domain.com
context=XXXXXX
disallow=all
allow=alaw
defaultuser=residentialDeviceName
secret=residentialDevicePassword
fromuser=residentialDeviceName
fromdomain=ivozprovider-brand.sip-domain.com
insecure=port,invite
sendrpid=pai
directmedia=no
</pre></div>
</div>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last"><em>Residential devices</em> MUST NOT challenge IvozProvider. That&#8217;s
why the <em>insecure</em> setting is used here.</p>
</div>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">As From username is used to identify the residential device, P-Asserted-Identity (or P-Preferred-Identity or Remote-Party-Id) must be used to specify caller number.
Prevalence among these source headers is: PAI &gt; PPI &gt; RPID.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>