<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Billing</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="rating_plans.xhtml" title="Rating plans"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="../routing/routing_tags.xhtml" title="Routing tags"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider halliday documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Brand Configuration</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="billing">
<span id="id1"></span><h1>Billing</h1>
<p>Billing a call is the <strong>action of setting a price</strong> to a call that implies cost.</p>
<p>Billing calls depends upon an automatic process:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>When a call is about to be established, IvozProvider verifies that it will be able to bill it.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition error">
<p class="first admonition-title">Error</p>
<p class="last">If with the current configuration (active and applicable rating plans for
a given client and for the specific destination) it won&#8217;t be possible to
bill the call, IvozProvider will prevent its establishment.</p>
</div>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Once a call that implies cost is hung up and is parsed by an asynchronous process, it is listed in <a class="reference internal" href="../../platform/external_calls.xhtml#id1"><span class="std std-ref">External calls</span></a>.</li>
</ul>
<div class="section" id="billing-methods">
<h2>Billing methods</h2>
<p>IvozProvider supports 3 different billing methods. Billing method is configured at client level via <em>Billing method</em> parameter.</p>
<div class="section" id="postpaid-billing">
<span id="id2"></span><h3>Postpaid billing</h3>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Call rating is done after the call ends.</li>
<li>No configurable limit or balances involved.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="prepaid-billing">
<span id="id3"></span><h3>Prepaid billing</h3>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Call rating is done during the call.</li>
<li>Clients with prepaid billing method have a preconfigured balance that will be decrement during the call.</li>
<li>When the balance reaches zero, all established calls for the client will hang up.</li>
<li>Clients cannot place new calls with zero or negative balance.</li>
<li>Low balance email notifications can be configured.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
</div>
<div class="section" id="pseudo-prepaid-billing">
<span id="id4"></span><h3>Pseudo-prepaid billing</h3>
<blockquote>
<div><ul class="simple">
<li>Call rating is done after the call ends.</li>
<li>Clients with pseudo-prepaid billing method have a preconfigured balance that will be decrement after the call ends.</li>
<li>Clients cannot place new calls with zero or below balance.</li>
<li>Low balance email notifications can be configured.</li>
</ul>
</div></blockquote>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">Call duration is limited to the maximum duration possible with available balance at the moment of call establishment.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="price-and-cost">
<h2>Price and cost</h2>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Call <strong>price</strong> is the amount of money the brand operator will charge to its <strong>client</strong> for every call.</li>
<li>Call <strong>cost</strong> is the amount of money the brand operator will be charged by the <strong>carrier</strong> for every call.</li>
</ul>
<p><strong>Call cost calculation is optional</strong>, as no every carrier has <em>Calculate Cost?</em> setting enabled. On the other hand, <strong>call
price calculation is mandatory</strong> for every outgoing call.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">Carrier call cost calculation, if enabled, is always done postpaid. Carriers with negative balance are allowed and
no call will be hung up when carrier balance reaches 0.</p>
</div>
</div>
<div class="section" id="concepts">
<h2>Concepts</h2>
<p>This topic will cover every topic involved in the billing process:</p>
<div class="toctree-wrapper compound">
<ul>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="rating_plans.xhtml">Rating plans</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="destination_rates.xhtml">Destination Rates</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="destinations.xhtml">Destinations</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="prepaid_balances.xhtml">Prepaid balances</a></li>
<li class="toctree-l1"><a class="reference internal" href="current_day_usages.xhtml">Current day usages</a></li>
</ul>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>