<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.1//EN"
  "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml11/DTD/xhtml11.dtd">


<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" lang="en">
  <head>
    <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=utf-8" />
    
    <title>Proxy Trunks</title>
    
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/epub.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/pygments.css" type="text/css" />
    <link rel="stylesheet" href="../../../_static/banner.css" type="text/css" /> 
  </head>
  <body role="document">

    <div class="related" role="navigation" aria-label="related navigation">
      <h3>Navigation</h3>
      <ul>
        <li class="right" style="margin-right: 10px">
          <a href="../../../genindex.xhtml" title="General Index"
             accesskey="I">index</a></li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="media_relay_sets.xhtml" title="Media relay sets"
             accesskey="N">next</a> |</li>
        <li class="right" >
          <a href="proxy_users.xhtml" title="Proxy Users"
             accesskey="P">previous</a> |</li>
        <li class="nav-item nav-item-0"><a href="../../../index.xhtml">IvozProvider Artemis documentation</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-1"><a href="../index.xhtml" >Platform Configuration</a> &#187;</li>
          <li class="nav-item nav-item-2"><a href="index.xhtml" accesskey="U">Infrastructure</a> &#187;</li> 
      </ul>
    </div>

    <div class="document">
      <div class="documentwrapper">
          <div class="body" role="main">
            
  <div class="section" id="proxy-trunks">
<h1>Proxy Trunks</h1>
<p>This is the SIP proxy exposed to external world and is in charge of connecting
with providers (carriers / DDI providers) brand administrators will configure for <em>SIP peering</em>.</p>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">Only the IP addresses will be listed, as the port will be always 5060
(5061 for SIP over TLS).</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="main-address">
<h2>Main address</h2>
<p>The value displayed in the entry <strong>proxytrunks</strong> will show the IP address
entered during the installation process.</p>
<div class="admonition danger">
<p class="first admonition-title">Danger</p>
<p class="last">This entry cannot be removed.</p>
</div>
<p>This IP address:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Will be used for internal signalling:<ul>
<li>KamTrunks &lt;-&gt; KamUsers</li>
<li>KamTrunks &lt;-&gt; Application Servers</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Will be used to reload Kamailio modules when needed (XMLRPC).</li>
</ul>
<p>This value can be changed from the portal, but Kamailio make sure that KamTrunks is binded to given IP.</p>
</div>
<div class="section" id="additional-addresses">
<h2>Additional addresses</h2>
<p>Apart from unremovable <strong>proxytrunks</strong> entry, additional addresses can be added here. These additional addresses can be
removed as long as they are not assigned to any Carrier / DDI Provider.</p>
<div class="admonition warning">
<p class="first admonition-title">Warning</p>
<p class="last">Apart from adding here, addresses must be configured in <em>/etc/kamailio/proxytrunks/additional_addresses.cfg</em>
(<em>additional_addresses.cfg.in</em> is given as an example). Make sure Kamailio can bind to given addresses,
otherwise it won&#8217;t boot.</p>
</div>
<p>The purpose of these additional addresses is to talk to different Providers using different addresses:</p>
<ul class="simple">
<li>Main operator (<em>God</em>) will assign IP addresses listed in this section to Brands (read <a class="reference internal" href="../brands.xhtml#brands"><span class="std std-ref">Brands</span></a>).<ul>
<li>Each brand must have at least one address.</li>
<li>Each address can be assigned in several brands.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>Brand operator will assign these addresses to Carriers (read <a class="reference internal" href="../../brand/providers/carriers.xhtml#carriers"><span class="std std-ref">Carriers</span></a>) and DDI Providers (read <a class="reference internal" href="../../brand/providers/ddi_providers.xhtml#ddi-providers"><span class="std std-ref">DDI Providers</span></a>).<ul>
<li>Each Provider (both Carriers and DDI Providers) must have one address.</li>
</ul>
</li>
<li>IvozProvider will use assigned addresses in SIP signalling with those Carriers / DDI Providers.</li>
</ul>
<div class="admonition note">
<p class="first admonition-title">Note</p>
<p class="last">Be aware that it only applies to SIP signalling, no changes are made in RTP media handling.</p>
</div>
</div>
</div>


          </div>
      </div>
      <div class="clearer"></div>
    </div>

    <div class="footer" role="contentinfo">
        &#169; Copyright 2016-2019, Irontec.
      Created using <a href="http://sphinx-doc.org/">Sphinx</a> 1.4.9.
    </div>
  </body>
</html>